                                                                                   Council Agenda
                        MEMORANDUM                                                 Item No. XI. U
                                                                                        4/21/2026

                        The City of                                                                .

                        OKLAHOMA CITY
TO:         Mayor and City Council

FROM:       Craig Freeman, City Manager

Ordinance to be introduced and adopted with emergency, declaring a moratorium until December
31, 2026, on the acceptance of new applications for processing of and issuance of rezoning requests
and permits, including building permits, that would allow construction on, expansion of, or use of
property for a data center located in Oklahoma City; providing an exception for certain pending
rezoning requests; providing for an appeal process; providing for effective and expiration dates;
providing severability; and declaring an emergency.

Background:
An ordinance was prepared to declare a temporary moratorium on the acceptance of new
applications for processing of and issuance of rezoning requests and permits, including building
permits, that would allow for the construction on, the expansion of, or the use of real property
located in the City of Oklahoma City for data centers. The ordinance also provides an exception
for certain pending rezoning requests, an appeals process, severability and the declaration of an
emergency to make the Ordinance immediately effective.

The Oklahoma City Zoning and Planning Code does not currently have a specific use unit or
regulations identified for data centers. With the increase of land use for large-scale data centers,
the potential negative impacts need to be fully explored, including water usage, electrical usage,
noise issues, infrastructure issues, and various other potential impacts on the citizens of Oklahoma
City. Additionally, the City is currently updating the Zoning Code and reviewing the City’s zoning
use units and regulations, including the addition of a use unit for data centers and associated
components.

The declaration of a temporary moratorium will allow the City Council time to evaluate the full
scope of the potential impacts of large-scale data centers and to determine the appropriate
regulations to be applied to the data centers.

Recommendation:        Ordinance be introduced and adopted with an emergency.
