THE SEMINOLE NATION OF OKLAHOMA
TR 2026-38

A VERBAL RESOLUTION OF THE GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE SEMINOLE
NATION OF OKLAHOMA IMPLEMENTING A MORATORIUM ON THE
ADVANCEMENT OF GENERATIVE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE TECHNOLOGY
AND HYPERSCALE DATA CENTER DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE JURISDICTION
OF THE SEMINOLE NATION OF OKLAHOMA

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE SEMINOLE NATION OF OKLAHOMA:

WHEREAS, Article V of the Seminole Nation Constitution empowers the General Council of
the Seminole Nation to speak or act on behalf of the Seminole Nation on all matters
which the Nation is empowered to act; and

WHEREAS, Article V of the Seminole Nation Constitution empowers the General Council of
the Nation to negotiate with federal, state, and local governments and others on.
behalf of the Nation, and to enter into any contract on behalf of the Nation in
conjunction with any activity that will further the well-being of the members of the
Nation; and

WHEREAS, the General council believes that it is in the best interest of the Seminole Nation to
implement a moratorium on the advancement of generative Artificial Intelligence
(Al) technology and hyperscale datacenter development within the jurisdiction of
the Seminole Nation of Oklahoma including but not limited to its tribal lands and

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT, the General Council of the Seminole Nation
of Oklahoma does hereby implement a moratorium on the advancement of generative Artificial
Intelligence (AI) technology and hyperscale data center development within the jurisdiction of the
Seminole Nation of Oklahoma including but not limited to its tribal lands and territories; and

FURTHER RESOLVED, that any inquiries, discussions, and/or developments concerning any
entity seeking to develop a data center of any size within the Seminole Nation are barred during
the moratorium period. *

Page 1 of 2
TR 2026-38


CERTIFICATION

PASSED AND APPROVED by the General Council of the Seminole Nation of Oklahoma on
this 7th day of March 2026, at Mekusukey Mission, South of Seminole, Oklahoma by. a vote of
24 Yes, Q No, Q _ Abstaining, a quorum of Fifteen (15) Council members being present.

ATTEST:
Stephamiie N. Byi General Council Secretary
General inole Nation of Oklahoma

,
Page 2 of 2

TR 2026-38


(Published in the Tulsa World,

, 2026)

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE DECLARING A 365-DA¥Y—MORATORIUM UNTIL
DECEMBER 31, 2026, ON THE ACCEPTANCE OF APPLICATIONS FOR,
PROCESSING OF AND ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS THAT WOULD
ALLOW CONSTRUCTION ON, OR USE OF, PROPERTY FOR DATA
CENTER USE LOCATED IN THE CITY OF TULSA; PROVIDING FOR AN.
EXCEPTIONS AND AN APPEAL PROCESS; PROVIDING EFFECTIVE AND
REPEAL DATES; PROVIDING SEVERABILITY; AND DECLARING AN
EMERGENCY.

WHEREAS, on November 6, 2024, the City Council adopted an ordinance defining data
centers and establishing zoning standards for this use; and

WHEREAS, data centers were included under Low-impact Manufacturing and Industry
based on knowledge of data centers at the time, and whereas Low-impact Manufacturing and
Industry uses are described as not generating noticeable off-site impacts in terms of noise, smoke,
particulate matter, odors, or vibration as part of their normal operations; and

WHEREAS, historically, data centers in Tulsa were of smaller scale and did not generate
potential impacts that have now become associated with new large-scale data centers;

WHEREAS, on February 11, 2026, the City Council voted 8-0 to request that the Planning
Office and the Tulsa Metropolitan Area Planning Commission re-evaluate data center regulations
in the City of Tulsa Zoning Code and provide recommendations to the Council; and

WHEREAS, a temporary moratorium on data center uses, in conjunction with the
consideration of amendments to the Zoning Code, will allow the City Council time to evaluate the
full scope of potential off-site impacts to determine if the use was categorized appropriately;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF TULSA, OKLAHOMA:

Section 1. There is hereby declared a Moratorium on the acceptance of applications for,
processing of and issuance of building permits that would allow construction on, or use of,
real property located in the city of Tulsa for Data Center use, as described in Title 42, Tulsa
Revised Ordinances (the Tulsa Zoning Code), Section 35.070-A.4. No application for a building
permit for construction of a building or structure for such use shall be accepted or processed by
the City of Tulsa, and no building permit shall be issued for the same, during the term of this
Moratorium, except as provided in Section 2.

JCB 3/25226/26


Section 2. EXCEPTIONS.

A. Project Anthem Phase |. This Moratorium shall not apply to a Data Center on the
property shown in Exhibit A and described in Exhibit B;constituting Project Anthem
Phase-t, which is the subject of the Project Anthem Economic Development Project
Plan and Supporting Incentive District, approved by Ordinance 25288, adopted by the
Council on May 1, 2024.

A-B. Project Anthem Phase 2. This Moratorium shall not apply to one additional Data
Center, which is the subject of pending zoning case Z-7851, if and where appropriately
zoned.

Section 3. APPEALS. During the term of this Moratorium, the City Council shall hear
any appeal from an affected owner of affected property, and may grant an exemption from the
provisions of this Moratorium for good cause shown.

Section 4. 60-DAY REPORTS. The Planning Office shall provide reports to the City
Council approximately 60-days after the effective date of this ordinance and each 60-days
thereafter_until this Moratorium expires to review progress toward re-evaluating data center
regulations in the Zoning Code and the status of recommendations to the Council.

Section 45. EFFECTIVE DATES. This Moratorium shall become effective immediately
upon its adoption, approval and publication, and shall remain in full force and effect through
Mareh-t1December 31, 20276, or on the effective date of an ordinance amending data center
regulations in the City of Tulsa adopted in response to the pending Planning Office and Planning
Commission review, whichever is earlier, after which it shall automatically be null, void and
repealed, provided that the repeal date of the Moratorium may be modified by the enactment of a
subsequent ordinance of the City of Tulsa.

Section 56. SEVERABILITY. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance
or any part thereof is for any reason found to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance or any part thereof.

Section 67. EMERGENCY. That an emergency is hereby declared to exist for the
preservation of the public peace, health and safety, by reason whereof this Ordinance shall take
effect immediately upon its adoption, approval and publication.

ADOPTED, by the Council on this day of 2026.

Chair of the Council


ADOPTED, as an emergency measure, on this day of 2026.

Chair of the Council

OFFICE OF THE MAYOR

APPROVED by the Mayor of the City of Tulsa, Oklahoma:

Date

Mayor
ATTEST:

City Clerk

APPROVED:

City Attorney


ADOPTED WITH EMERGENCY.

Council Agenda
MEMORANDUM Item No. XI. U
4/21/2026

The City of
OKLAHOMA CITY

TO: Mayor and City Council
FROM: Craig Freeman, City Manager

Ordinance to be introduced and adopted with emergency, declaring a moratorium until December
31, 2026, on the acceptance of new applications for processing of and issuance of rezoning requests
and permits, including building permits, that would allow construction on, expansion of, or use of
property for a data center located in Oklahoma City; providing an exception for certain pending
rezoning requests; providing for an appeal process; providing for effective and expiration dates;
providing severability; and declaring an emergency.

Background:

An ordinance was prepared to declare a temporary moratorium on the acceptance of new
applications for processing of and issuance of rezoning requests and permits, including building
permits, that would allow for the construction on, the expansion of, or the use of real property
located in the City of Oklahoma City for data centers. The ordinance also provides an exception
for certain pending rezoning requests, an appeals process, severability and the declaration of an
emergency to make the Ordinance immediately effective.

The Oklahoma City Zoning and Planning Code does not currently have a specific use unit or
regulations identified for data centers. With the increase of land use for large-scale data centers,
the potential negative impacts need to be fully explored, including water usage, electrical usage,
noise issues, infrastructure issues, and various other potential impacts on the citizens of Oklahoma
City. Additionally, the City is currently updating the Zoning Code and reviewing the City’s zoning
use units and regulations, including the addition of a use unit for data centers and associated
components.

The declaration of a temporary moratorium will allow the City Council time to evaluate the full
scope of the potential impacts of large-scale data centers and to determine the appropriate
regulations to be applied to the data centers.

Recommendation: Ordinance be introduced and adopted with an emergency.


City Council Action
Financial Impact Report

Title of Item: Ordinance to be introduced and adopted with emergency, declaring a moratorium until December
31, 2026, on the acceptance of new applications for processing of and issuance of rezoning requests and permits,
including building permits, that would allow construction on, expansion of, or use of property for a data center
located in Oklahoma City; providing an exception for certain pending rezoning requests; providing for an appeal
process; providing for effective and expiration dates; providing severability; and declaring an emergency.

Or iginating i tah The City Manager's s Office

Description of Impact

The financial impact of this ordinance is inherently unquantifiable; however, realized financial impacts are
expected to be minimal specifically because the ordinance establishes a temporary moratorium with defined
expiration. Consequently, any potential financial effects would be the result of activity being deferred for a short
period, rather than a permanent loss.

This reasoning applies equally to both the business community and the City organization, as presumably any
associated revenue to the City would be simply delayed but not lost follow the expiration of the moratorium.

The financial impact upon residents is likewise minimal, however this group carries the largest potential risk
from the consequence of proceeding without the moratorium and its associated review of zoning code and other
related effects from these types of facilities. The risk to the resident stems from their reliance upon the shared
resources necessary to operate the data centers, property values, and other potential impacts.

Summary of Impact » un

a. Cost to City Organization: $0

b. Cost to Citizens: $0

ec. Cost to Business Community: $0

d. Revenue Produced: $0

Source of Funds te

Fund Name: N/A FG TOT a 73 Name: The City Manager’s Office

Department Head Signat(re;” FAA. ah. : :

OMB Review Completed by: chiéstién York, Budget Gifector Chusstion V saa



(Published in The Journal Record APRIL 22 , 2026)

ORDINANCE NO. _ 28.071

ORDINANCE DECLARING A MORATORIUM UNTIL DECEMBER 31,
2026, ON THE ACCEPTANCE OF NEW APPLICATIONS FOR
PROCESSING OF AND ISSUANCE OF REZONING REQUESTS AND
PERMITS, INCLUDING BUILDING PERMITS, THAT WOULD ALLOW
CONSTRUCTION ON, EXPANSION OF, OR USE OF PROPERTY FORA
DATA CENTER LOCATED IN THE CITY OF OKLAHOMA CITY;
PROVIDING AN EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN PENDING REZONING
REQUESTS; PROVIDING FOR AN APPEAL PROCESS; PROVIDING
FOR EFFECTIVE AND’ EXPIRATION DATES; PROVIDING
SEVERABILITY; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.

EMERGENCY ORDINANCE

WHEREAS, currently Chapter 59 of the Oklahoma City Municipal Code, 2020, as
amended, known as the Oklahoma City Zoning and Planning Code (“Zoning Code”), does not
have a specific use unit or specific regulations identified for data centers; and

WHEREAS, historically, data centers in Oklahoma City have been on a small scale, or
associated with a specific office or business use, and they did not generate the potential negative
impacts that have now become associated with new, larger-scale data centers; and

WHEREAS, large-scale data centers cause potential issues related to water usage,
electrical usage, noise , heat, air quality, infrastructure issues, and various other potential impacts
on the citizens of Oklahoma City; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has entered into a multi-phase contract with White and
Smith Planning and Law Group of Kansas City, Missouri, to update the City’s development-related
codes, including the Zoning Code; and these changes are intended to implement the City’s

Comprehensive Plan (PlanOKC) and address the challenges with existing City regulations; and


WHEREAS, the City is currently in Phase 2 of the Zoning Code update and is currently
reviewing the City’s zoning use unit classifications including the addition of a use unit for data
centers and battery storage systems and associated components and regulations related thereto; and

WHEREAS, consistent with the intent of PlanOKC and the Zoning Code to promote the
health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of Oklahoma City, and to allow for the proper
study of regulations on land uses, the holding of public hearings and the adoption of amendments
to the Zoning Code and other regulations related to data centers are critical, and an emergency
exists that requires the declaration of a temporary moratorium on the acceptance of applications
for the processing of and issuance of all rezoning requests and permits, including building permits,
for the construction on or use of property for new or expanded data centers; and

WHEREAS, the declaration of such a temporary moratorium will allow the City Council
time to evaluate the full scope of the potential impacts of data centers and to determine the
appropriate regulations to be applied to data centers.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
OKLAHOMA CITY:

Section 1. A Moratorium is hereby declared on the acceptance of new applications for
processing of and issuance of rezoning requests and permits, including building permits, that
would allow for the construction on, the expansion of, or the use of real property located in the
City of Oklahoma City for data centers. No application for such a rezoning or a permit, including
building permits, for construction or expansion of a building or structure for such use shall be
accepted or processed by The City of Oklahoma City, and no permits, including building permits,

shall be issued for the same during the term of this Moratorium.


Section 2. Any firm, person or business entity aggrieved by any determination made
by the Planning Director or Development Services Director under the terms of this Ordinance may
appeal such determination to the Board of Adjustment as provided in Chapter 59 of the Oklahoma
City Municipal Code, 2020, as amended. The Board of Adjustment is hereby authorized to grant
variances from the terms of this Ordinance to relieve an unnecessary hardship, provided the
purpose and intent of the Ordinance is met.

Section 3. The provisions of this Ordinance shall apply only to applications for the
processing of and issuance of rezoning requests and permits, including building permits, for the
construction and/or expansion of or use of property for data centers which are filed after the
effective date of this Ordinance as set forth in Section 4 below; provided, this Ordinance shall not
apply to the pending Applications for rezoning known as PUD-2105 (located at I-40 and Frisco
Rd.) and PUD-2124 (located at NW 23 Street and Frisco Road), or to any permits, including
building permits, related thereto.

Section 4. This Moratorium shall become effective immediately upon its adoption, and
shall remain in full force and effect for the shorter of December 31, 2026, or the effective date of
an amendment to the Zoning Code related to the adoption of new use units and regulations
associated with data centers by the City Council, after which it shall automatically expire and be
null and void; provided that the expiration date of the Moratorium may be modified by the
enactment of a subsequent ordinance of The City of Oklahoma City.

Section 5. If any section, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Ordinance or any part
thereof is for any reason found to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision

shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this Ordinance or any part thereof.


Section 6. An emergency is hereby declared to exist for the preservation of the public
peace, health, safety, and welfare by reason whereof this Ordinance shall take effect immediately
upon its adoption and publication.

INTRODUCE AND READ in the open meeting of the Council of The City of Oklahoma

City, Oklahoma, this 21ST dayof APRIL 2026.

PASSED by the Council of The City of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, this __ 21ST day of
APRIL 2026.

SIGNED by the Mayor of The City of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, this 21ST day of
APRIL , 2026.

THE CITY OF OKLAHOMA CITY

ling

Ny

ATTEST: Of,

REVIEWED for form and legality.

hou 2 Knhdll

Assistant Municipal Counselor



MEMORANDUM aca

5/19/2026
The City of
OKLAHOMA CITY
TO: Mayor and City Council
FROM: Craig Freeman, City Manager
1. Ordinance to be introduced and adopted with emergency, amending Ordinance No. 28,071

declaring a temporary moratorium on the acceptance of new applications for processing of
and issuance of rezoning requests and permits, including building permits, that would allow
construction on, expansion of, or use of property for a data center located in Oklahoma
City by amending Section 3 to provide clarity, adding Section 7 to define data centers
subject to the temporary moratorium and adding Section 8 to state that continued operation
of a data center is not an affirmation that such use is permitted under or lawfully supported
by current law; and declaring an emergency;

2. Ordinance to be introduced and adopted with emergency, amending Ordinance No. 28,071
declaring a temporary moratorium on the acceptance of new applications for processing of
and issuance of rezoning requests and permits, including building permits, that would allow
construction on, expansion of, or use of property for a data center located in Oklahoma
City by amending Section 3 to provide clarity and additional exemptions, adding Section
7 to define data centers subject to the temporary moratorium and adding Section 8 to state
that continued operation of a data center is not an affirmation that such use is permitted
under or lawfully supported by current law; and declaring an emergency.

Background:

Ordinance No. 28,071 was adopted with an emergency on April 21, 2026, to declare a temporary
moratorium on the acceptance of new applications for processing of and issuance of rezoning
requests and permits, including budling permits, that would allow for the construction on, the
expansion of, or the use of real property located in the City of Oklahoma City for data centers.
Version 1 clarifies that the moratorium is intended to address data centers with net new electrical
loads of greater than 75MW ensuring that only large-scale builds with significant infrastructure
and grid impacts are subject to the temporary moratorium, clarifies exemptions and states
continued operation of a data center is not affirmation that such use is permitted under or lawfully
supported by current law. Version 2 includes all of amendments of Version | plus the addition of
exempting the proposed data center project at 7725 N. Reno Ave provided that potable water is
only used for domestic consumption, irrigation, and fire protection purposes.

Review:
City Manager’s Office
























