                                                EXECUTIVE ORDER
                                                  2026-02-CTH

    EXECUTIVE ORDER ESTABLISHING PRINCIPAL CHIEF’S TASK FORCE TO STUDY THE IMPACT OF DATA
        CENTERS ON THE ECONOMY AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT OF THE CHEROKEE NATION
                                        RESERVATION

     1. AUTHORITY: The Constitution and laws of the Cherokee Nation.


     2. POLICY: It is in the interest of the Cherokee Nation to balance its commitment to stay on the
        leading edge of technological advancement for the sake of operating efficient and effective
        government and business systems as well as serving as responsible stewards of natural resources.
        These interests intersect with emerging technologies, such as artificial intelligence, which
        increase demand for data centers and which in turn potentially generate economic opportunities
        and pressure on natural resources within the Cherokee Nation Reservation. In Executive Order
        2024-07-CTH my Administration established a task force to study and make recommendations
        relating to the responsible and ethical use of AI by Cherokee Nation. That Task force produced a
        report in June of 2025 and a policy followed that same month. That executive order and the
        ensuring work was and remains important to the Cherokee Nation in meeting some of the
        interests identified above, but not all of those interests. Since the signing of the 2024 executive
        order, efforts to construct data centers supportive of AI, including northeastern Oklahoma, have
        been on the rise 1. Data Centers appear to potentially deliver some measurable and sustained
        level of positive economic impact and tax revenue but are also associated with negative




1
 See, e.g., “February 2026 Data Center Report: After Record Growth, the Outlook for the Year Ahead,”
(ConstructionConnect.com, February 3, 2026) retrieved February 11, 2026,
https://news.constructconnect.com/february-2026-data-center-report-after-record-growth-the-outlook-for-the-year-
ahead (“Data center construction starts surged to $77.7 billion in 2025, a 190% year-over-year increase, with Q4 alone
accounting for $44.4 billion.”)


                                                    Page 1 of 4
Executive Order Establishing the Principal Chief’s Task Force to Study the Impact of Data Centers on the Economy and
Natural Environment of The Cherokee Nation Reservation, EO 2026-02-CTH

        environmental impacts on energy costs rates 2. Accordingly, my Administration must focus on
        the economic and environmental impact of data centers. Cherokee Nation must be in as strong
        a position as possible to understand the relevant issues and understand the tools and resources
        at its disposal to help shape the debate over the development of and operation of data centers.
        Therefore, this Executive Order establishing the Principal Chief’s Task Force to Study the Impact
        of Data Centers on the Economy and Natural Environment of the Cherokee Nation Reservation
        to conduct a threshold examination of relevant subjects is warranted.


    3. Principal Chief’s Task Force on Data Centers: There is hereby established the Principal Chief’s
       Task Force to Study the Impact of Data Centers on the Economy and Natural Environment of the
       Cherokee Nation Reservation, operating pursuant to the composition, objectives and other
       parameters set forth herein, and alternatively known as the Principal Chief’s Task Force on Data
       Centers.


        a. Composition: The Principal Chief’s Task Force on Data Centers shall be composed of the
           following members:


                 i.    Christina Justice, Cherokee Nation Secretary of Natural Resources (Chair)
                ii.    Dr. Corey Bunch, Cherokee Nation Chief of Staff (Co-Chair)
               iii.    Andy McMillan, Cherokee Nation Businesses, Director of Economic Development
               iv.     Ed Fite, Cherokee Nation Environmental Protection Commission
                v.     Paula Starr, Cherokee Nation Chief Information Officer.
               vi.     Kim Teehee, Cherokee Nation Businesses VP of Government Relations (or designee)
              vii.     Paiten Qualls, Cherokee Nation Deputy Attorney General (designee of Attorney
                       General Chad Harsha)
             viii.     Julie Hubbard, Cherokee Nation Executive Director of Communications
              ix.      Dawni Squirrel, Cultural Advisor

        b. Engagement, Administration


                      i.   Engaging Internal and External Expertise: The Task Force may engage such
                           internal and external experts in relevant fields as necessary to effectuate the
                           purposes and polices of this order, provided:

2
 See “What Happens When Data Centers Come to Town,” Nguyen, Terry and Green, Ben (University of Michigan, July
2025) retrieved February 11, 2026, https://stpp.fordschool.umich.edu/sites/stpp/ﬁles/2025-07/stpp-data-centers-
2025.pdf


                                                      Page 2 of 4
Executive Order Establishing the Principal Chief’s Task Force to Study the Impact of Data Centers on the Economy and
Natural Environment of The Cherokee Nation Reservation, EO 2026-02-CTH

                                   1. The Task Force should seek to achieve a reasonable degree of
                                      perspective balance among internal and external expertise in order to
                                      achieve the Task Force’s interests in achieving perspective balance.
                                   2. The Task For shall maintain a record of the names and affiliations of
                                      the external experts engaged under paragraph 3.b of this order.
                                   3. Task force members, internal experts and external experts must
                                      disclose their relationship with all third parties which have an interest
                                      in the subject matters under review, which shall be compiled in a single
                                      record maintained by the chair of the Task Force for the resolution of,
                                      in the opinion of the Chair, any disabling conflicts of interests.


                   ii.    Soliciting Citizen Input: The Task Force should solicit input from Cherokee Nation
                          citizens on subjects relevant to this Order.
                   iii.   Administrative Assistance and Expense: The Task Force may request the
                          assignment of such clerical and administrative assistance as necessary to perform
                          its work. Additionally, the Task Force is generally authorized administrative
                          expense funds available under the budget of the Secretary of Natural Resources
                          or Administration to fund its work, subject to approval of specific amounts.


        c. Objectives: The Task Force should conduct a threshold examination of the following subjects:


                    i.    Where within the Cherokee Nation Reservation do data centers exist and what are
                          the locations of any planned data centers?
                    ii.   What is the regional outlook for the construction of and operation of data centers?
                   iii.   What environmental concerns are associated with data centers?
                   iv.    What economic opportunities or detriments attend the development and
                          operation of data centers?
                   v.     Do any economic opportunities relating to data center development and
                          operation align with Cherokee Nation’s business interests?
                   vi.    What barriers or opportunities exist with respect to efforts by Cherokee Nation to
                          mitigate any economic detriments or harm to the environment and its citizens
                          relating to data center development or operations?
                  vii.    What governmental policies relating to data center development or operations
                          presently under consideration at the state or federal level should Cherokee Nation
                          consider for advocacy?


                                                      Page 3 of 4
Executive Order Establishing the Principal Chief’s Task Force to Study the Impact of Data Centers on the Economy and
Natural Environment of The Cherokee Nation Reservation, EO 2026-02-CTH

                 viii.    What efforts can Cherokee Nation undertake to better understand concerns,
                          questions and opinions of its citizens relating to data center development and
                          operations?
                   ix.    What efforts can Cherokee Nation undertake to provide factual and unbiased
                          information relating to data center development or operations to its citizens?
                    x.    To what extent does Cherokee Nation and its entities utilize data centers?
                   xi.    What impact does the Nation and its entities’ utilization of AI have on these
                          systems?


    d. Deadline: The Task Force shall complete its work and issue a final report by June 30, 2026, unless
       extended in writing by the Principal Chief.
    e. Transparency: Although the Task Force is an executive branch advisory group and not a public
       body within the meaning of the Cherokee Nation Freedom of Information Act, its final report
       shall be distributed to Cherokee Nation elected officials and to the general public via the
       Cherokee Nation website within 45 days of completion.
    4. ORDER: The Principal Chief’s Task Force to Study the Impact of Data Centers on the Economy and
       Natural Environment of the Cherokee Nation Reservation is hereby created to achieve the
       purposes and policies set forth in this order.
    5. EFFECTIVE DATE: This Order is effective immediately on this date, February 26, 2026, and expires
       June 30, 2026, unless extended in writing by the Principal Chief.




__________________________
Chuck Hoskin, Jr.
Principal Chief
Cherokee Nation




                                                      Page 4 of 4
