         Loudoun Board Enacts Pause on Data Centers
             Briskman-led Effort to Slow Industry Moves Forward


FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Aman Ardalan
Senior Legislative Aide to Supervisor Briskman
aman.ardalan@loudoun.gov

LEESBURG, VA, Sept. 16, 2026 – The Loudoun County Board of Supervisors voted Tuesday
to enact a temporary pause on Board consideration of certain legislative applications for
data centers and substations, advancing an effort first brought forward by Algonkian District
Supervisor Juli E. Briskman.

The pause takes effect immediately and will remain in place while the Board continues its
work on Phase 2 of the Data Center Standards and Locations initiative, an ongoing review of
policy and development standards for data centers and utility substations. County staff will
return to the Board at its October 20 Business Meeting with a formal resolution
memorializing the pause.

"For years, I have been pushing for Loudoun County to get a handle on data center growth.
Last night, the Board finally took decisive action our constituents have been demanding,”
said Supervisor Briskman. “This pause is a major step forward. Now we have the breathing
room required to complete the critical work of revising our regulations to protect our
communities.”

Virginia law generally requires the Board to act on pending legislative land-use applications
within 12 months from the date the case is first presented to the Planning Commission,
unless an applicant agrees to an extension. The pause is structured to comply with that
requirement while allowing the Board to defer consideration of eligible applications as
Phase 2 regulations move forward.

The final action, which passed with a 7-1-1 vote, also directed County staff to identify the
applications that could reach their 12-month deadline before completion of the regulations
and ask those applicants to voluntarily delay their cases until the related Zoning Ordinance
and Comprehensive Plan amendments are complete. In a separate 7-1-1 vote (Briskman
opposed), the Board approved an exception allowing it to consider applications during the
pause if they involve a “grid reliability” substation.
Prior to enacting the pause, the Board unanimously approved a motion from Supervisor
Briskman to waive attorney-client privilege and authorize the public release of the County
Attorney’s memorandum with legal analysis on the proposal. The County Attorney then
publicly explained the memorandum and its findings during Tuesday’s meeting.

“Residents deserve transparency and access to the same information the Board is relying
on when we make decisions this important,” said Briskman. “Making this legal analysis
public gives everyone a clear understanding of both our authority as a Board and the actions
Loudoun can take to slow data center sprawl.”

The County Attorney, Leo Rogers, advised the Board that it may temporarily defer
consideration of certain legislative applications, subject to applicable statutory deadlines,
while Virginia law does not allow a blanket moratorium on the processing of administrative
applications.
Tuesday’s action comes two weeks after the Board unanimously advanced a separate effort
introduced by Supervisor Briskman and Little River District Supervisor Laura A. TeKrony to
examine potentially ending the County’s 2025 data center grandfathering clause for certain
pending administrative data center applications. At least 17 land use cases representing
more than 11 million square feet of development are “grandfathered” under that resolution
and are not impacted by the enacted pause because they are proceeding through a by-right
administrative process. Briskman and Tekrony both voted against the grandfathering clause
in March 2025.

At its October 6 Business Meeting, the Board is set to receive legal analysis from the County
Attorney on whether the grandfathered exceptions can be ended for applications that have
not been conditionally approved or achieved vested rights or another form of legal
entitlement. If those exceptions are ended, affected cases would instead be required to go
through the Special Exception process, including public hearings before both the Planning
Commission and Board of Supervisors and a final vote by the Board.

The Data Center Standards and Locations initiative grew out of a comprehensive remapping
project first proposed by Supervisor Briskman in 2021. Phase 1, completed in March 2025,
updated the County’s Zoning Ordinance to require most newly proposed data centers to
obtain Special Exception approval through a public legislative process. However, the 2025
Data Center Grandfathering Resolution, which was also adopted in March 2025 (Briskman,
Glass, TeKrony, and Turner opposed), allows certain data center site plans and
amendments to continue through the by-right administrative review process without
obtaining the Special Exception now required for other proposed data centers.
Phase 2 began in September 2025 to establish new policy guidance and use-specific
standards for data centers and utility substations. The review also includes data center
compatibility and siting, utility substation policies, as well as onsite power generation and
battery storage. The Board will also consider noise, building heights, parking, and other
standards governing future development. Phase 2 of the Data Center Standards and
Locations initiative is anticipated to be completed in 2027.


                                             ##

Supervisor Juli E. Briskman was first elected in 2019 to represent the Algonkian District on
the Board of Supervisors and was reelected in 2023. She served as Vice Chair of the Board
in 2024 and as Chair of the Finance, Government Operations, and Economic Development
Committee for nearly two years. Briskman is a proud mom of two Loudoun County Public
Schools alumni and is a graduate of The Ohio State University. She also holds an MBA from
Johns Hopkins University. Briskman represented Loudoun on the Metropolitan Washington
Council of Governments for four years and currently serves on the Northern Virginia
Transportation Commission and the Virginia Association of Counties Board of Directors.
