RESOLUTION R-26-

PROVIDING FOR A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON THE ACCEPTANCE OF
APPLICATIONS RELATING TO THE ESTABLISHMENT, OPERATION OR
EXPANSION OF DATA CENTERS, NUCLEAR POWER GENERATION FACILITIES
HYDROGEN-BASED ENERGY FACILITIES, AND BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE
SYSTEMS WITHIN THE UNINCORPORATED AREAS OF NEOSHO COUNTY.

WHEREAS, many proposals regarding alternate methods of generating, storing and
using large volumes of electrical power are being developed across the country, each of
which impacts the use of property, and

WHEREAS, the full scope and significance of the impacts of these property uses are
unknown with regard to potential development in the unincorporated areas of Neosho
County, and

WHEREAS, the Neosho County Commission has spent significant time and effort to
develop regulations regarding some of these property uses (wind power generation,
commercial-scale solar power generation, and battery energy storage systems), and
WHEREAS, no applications for proposed developments have been submitted with
respect to Data Centers, Nuclear Power Generation Facilities, Hydrogen-Based Energy
Facilities, and/or Battery Energy Storage Systems within the unincorporated area of
Neosho County, and

WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners recognizes that a need exists to
review, consider potential changes and potentially adopt land development regulations
and/or standards that may pertain to such property uses, and

WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners desires to provide adequate time to
properly evaluate and implement the aforementioned actions by providing for the
suspension of acceptance or processing of applications or permits pertaining or related
to the establishment, operation or expansion of any Data Center, Nuclear Power
Generation, Hydrogen-Based Energy uses and/or Battery Energy Storage Systems,
including but not limited to applications for building permits, site plan and architectural
reviews, variances, floodplain development permits, conditional use permits, grading
permits, rezoning applications or occupancy permits; and for the suspension of
construction and erection of Data Centers, Nuclear Power Generation Facilities, and
Hydrogen-Based Energy Facilities, and/or Battery energy Storage Systems including
related activities in the interim, and

WHEREAS, in accordance with K.S.A. 19-101 et seq., the County has police power and
statutory authority to regulate the conduct of rural development.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS OF NEOSHO COUNTY, KANSAS, as follows:


1. For the purposes of this Resolution, "data center" shall mean a building, group of
buildings, enclosed trailers or containers or facility whose primary use is data
processing or data storage, and is used to house computer systems, servers, and
associated components, such as but not limited to central processing units, graphic
processing units, neural networks, quantum bits, quantum processors, memory, data
routing, data storage, data warehouse, server farm, cryptocurrency or bitcoin mining,
crypto processing, blockchain verification facilities, virtual private networks, virtual
servers, artificial intelligence training or processing, image processing, cloud computing,
email servicing, a telecom hotel, tele-house colocation, or any other term applicable to
facilities which are used for such purposes.

2. For the purposes of this Resolution, "nuclear power generation facility" shall mean a
building, group of buildings, containment vessel, subterranean excavation or facility
whose primary use is commercial generation of power through generation of heat from
a controlled nuclear fission chain reaction, or any other term applicable to facilities
which are used for such purposes.

3. For purposes of this Resolution, “hydrogen-based energy facility” shall mean a
building, group of buildings, compressor, storage tank or facility whose primary use is
production, storage or distribution of purified hydrogen for fuel cell vehicles or electricity
generation, or any other term applicable to facilities which are used for such purposes.

4. For purposes of this Resolution, “Battery Energy Storage System” shall mean a
building, group of buildings, or facility whose primary use is as a large-scale
electrochemical energy system that stores electricity for later use or any other term
applicable to facilities which are used for such purposes.

5. The Neosho County Commission hereby suspends accepting or acting upon any
application or permit received for operation, development, erection and/or construction
of a Data Center, Nuclear Power Generation Facility, Hydrogen-Based Energy Facility
and/or Battery Energy Storage System, or related activities and components associated
with these property uses.

6. The establishment of any Data Center, Nuclear Power Generation Facility, Hydrogen-
Based Energy Facility, and/or Battery Energy Storage System including related
activities in the unincorporated area of Neosho County is hereby suspended and
prohibited and the same is hereby declared to be a violation of the public interest of
Neosho County so long as this Resolution shall remain in effect.

7. During the period of the moratorium established by the Resolution, the Neosho
County Commission will undertake a comprehensive review of such Data Centers,
Nuclear Power Generation Facilities, Hydrogen Based Energy Facilities, and/or Battery
Energy Storage systems as well as related projects, including the impact, if any, that
such projects might have upon nearby properties. The Neosho County Board of County
Commissioners shall determine whether such property uses should be prohibited or
allowed in the unincorporated areas of Neosho County.


8. The moratorium imposed by this Resolution shall be limited to the stated prohibition
applicable to Data Centers, Nuclear Power Generation Facilities, Hydrogen-Based
Energy Facilities, and/or Battery energy Storage Systems including related activities,
and not to individual systems in existence or subsequently developed for personal or
military use which are not intended to be of a commercial enterprise of any kind or
character.

9. The moratorium imposed by this Resolution may be extended, terminated earlier than
its expiration date, or otherwise amended by a properly adopted subsequent resolution
of this Board of County Commissioners.

10. If any provision of this Resolution shall be declared by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Resolution shall not be
affected thereby.

11.This Resolution shall take effect and be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption and publication in the official county newspapers and shall remain in effect
until June 1, 2027.

This resolution adopted and signed this 19th day of May, 2026, by the Board of County
Commissioners, Neosho County, Kansas.

THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF NEOSHO COUNTY, KANSAS

By: Ha? fat Lar—

Gail Klaassen, Chairman, County Commissioner

es iia County Clerk

