BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
OF DICKINSON COUNTY, KANSAS

RESOLUTION # 073026

A resolution providing for a temporary moratorium on commercial Data centers, battery
energy storage systems (BESS) and large-scale renewable energy technology development,
with the exception of those currently defined and enabled in Article 21 of the zoning
regulations, within the unincorporated area of Dickinson County, Kansas.

WHEREAS the current Dickinson County Comprehensive Plan would generally allow
incorporating provisions for data centers, BESS facilities and alternative energy technology
within the zoning regulations in the unincorporated areas of Dickinson County; and

WHEREAS, due to the number of impacts that such uses might have on that property for
both current and future property owners, the Board of County Commissioners recognizes that
a need exists to review, consider potential changes and potentially adopt land development
regulations and/or standards that may pertain to such property uses; and

WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners desires to provide a strategic pause of
twelve (12) months each on any potential applications for data centers, renewable energy
technologies and BESS facilities to allow the Dickinson County Planning and Zoning Board
to properly evaluate and render a recommendation for the aforementioned uses and for the
suspension of construction and erection of these uses in the interim, except those currently
defined and addressed in Article 21; and

WHEREAS the Board of County Commissioners desires to provide adequate time to
determine whether, where and how commercial data centers, BESS facilities and alternative
energy projects except those defined and addressed in Article 21 of the zoning regulations,
should be allowed in Dickinson County; and

WHEREAS, in accordance with K.S.A. 12-741 et seq. and K.S.A. 19-101 et seq., the County
has police power and statutory authority to regulate the conduct of rural development through
Zoning Regulations.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS OF DICKINSON COUNTY, KANSAS, that

1. The Dickinson County Planning and Zoning Board is hereby directed to suspend
acting upon any application received for the issuance of a Conditional Use Permit or
for permits for the erection and construction of any Commercial Data Centers,
Battery Energy Storage Systems, or any renewable energy project or component
thereof, except those as currently defined and addressed in Article 21, until this
moratorium has concluded.

2. The establishment of any Commercial data centers or renewable energy technology
facilities except those defined under Article 21 of the zoning regulations in the
unincorporated area of Dickinson County is hereby suspended and prohibited and the



same is hereby declared to be a violation of the public interest of Dickinson County
so long as this Resolution shall remain in effect.

3. The Dickinson County Planning and Zoning Board is directed to review and update
the Dickinson County Zoning Regulations for a period of three (3) years, or 12
months for each of the following: Data Centers to expire on July 30, 2027, Battery
Energy Storage Systems to expire on July 30, 2028 and Renewable energy facilities
to expire on July 30, 2029; and to provide additional guidelines and development
areas with respect to those uses, except those as currently defined and addressed in
Article 21, in the unincorporated area of Dickinson County, Kansas as they deem
appropriate.

4. The moratorium imposed by this Resolution shall not apply to off-grid, on-site
renewable energy installations on owner-occupied residential and commercial sites.

5. The Moratorium imposed by this Resolution shall not apply to renewable energy
projects currently in use and previously approved under the provisions of Article 21.

6. The Moratorium imposed by this Resolution may be extended, terminated earlier that
its expiration date or otherwise amended by subsequent resolution of the Board of
County Commissioners.

This resolution shall take effect and be in full force from its approval by the Board of
County Commissioners of Dickinson County, Kansas and after publication in the official

county newspaper, until July 30, 2029.

Passed this 30" day of July, 2026.

DICKINSON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
C4

Zi

Kenny Roefofsen, Chairman

SIGNED:

4b es oe

Lynn Peterson, Vice Chair

—

\Bbn Rotier \/

ATTEST:

(A. Huson

Jennifer Gaytan, County Clerk

