                COUNTY COUNCIL OF WICOMICO COUNTY, MARYLAND




2026 Legislative Session                                                    Legislative Day No. 16
                                    RESOLUTION NO. 125-2026

Introduced by: The President of the Council

   A RESOLUTION TO IMPOSE AND DECLARE A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON
                                              DATA CENTERS


       WHEREAS, the development of data centers in Wicomico County has been a matter of
great concern for the residents of the County due to the public welfare, environmental, energy,
and land use impacts of this use; and

       WHEREAS, the County Council has heard these community concerns and desires to
fully study and establish zoning regulations to govern the development of this industry within the
County; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Title 10 of the Local Government Article of the Annotated Code
of Maryland, the County may pass any ordinance, resolution, or by-law not inconsistent with
State law that may aid in maintaining the peace, good government, health, and welfare of the

County; and

       WHEREAS, during the 2025 Legislative Session, the Maryland General Assembly
passed Senate Bill 116 titled “Data Center Impact Analysis and Report,” which required the
Department of the Environment, the Maryland Energy Administration, and the University of
Maryland School of Business, in coordination with the Department of Legislative Services, to
conduct an analysis of the likely environmental, energy, and economic impacts of data center

development in the State. Further, the Department of Legislative Services was charged with
submitting the final report to the Governor on or before September 1, 2026; and

       WHEREAS, the Council believes that this study, as well as the current review and update
of the 2017 Wicomico County Comprehensive Plan will provide the necessary information to
ensure the   health, safety, and welfare of county citizens, as it relates to the development of data
centers, within the County.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the County Council of Wicomico County,
Maryland, as follows:
       1. A data center means a building or group of buildings:


                 (i) Used to house computer systems, computer storage equipment, and associated
                 infrastructure that businesses or other organizations use to organize, process, store,
                 and disseminate large amounts of data; and

                 (ii) is not a server room.
        2. A   server room     is defined   as on-premise room which houses computer systems,
                                                 an

computer storage equipment,        and associated infrastructure that a single business, school or


organization uses to organize, process, store, and disseminate large amounts of data in furtherance
of the entity’s purpose..

        3.     There is a temporary pause on the acceptance, processing, review, and approval of

applications for preliminary plans of subdivision and detailed site plans that include a data center
                          (1) year after the date of adoption of this resolution or the effective date
use until the earlier of one

of comprehensive legislation enacted by the County Council to address the placement,
construction, and operation of data center uses.

        4.      That during the temporary moratorium established by this resolution, the Wicomico
County Department of Planning, Zoning and Community Development shall not accept, process,
review, Or approve applications for preliminary plans of subdivision and applications for detailed
site plans which propose a data center.

        S.      That during the temporary moratorium established by this resolution, the Wicomico

County Department of Planning, Zoning and Community Development shall not accept or process
an application for either a determination of an unclassified use by the Board of Appeals in

accordance with Wicomico County Code, § 225-67.B and § 7-3.A.(4) or for a zoning text
amendment, initiated by an entity other than Wicomico County, in accordance with § 225-20.

        6.      That this temporary moratorium shall take effect immediately upon adoption of this
resolution.

        7.      That the County Council reserves the right to extend or modify this temporary pause
for such additional period(s) and upon such terms and conditions as it deems necessary to protect
the public health, safety, and welfare.

DONE at Salisbury, Maryland this 4 day of August, 2026.


ATTEST:                                                    COUNTY COUNCIL OF WICOMICO
                                                           COUNTY, MARYLAND


Prpase.lbw,              —




Laura Hurley, Couhcil Administrator                               T. Cafinon, Council President
                                                                                                     __(SEAL)

                                                 CERTUFICATION


THIS RESOLUTION was Adopted
                                  /          ,Adopted with Amendments
Withdrawn               by the County Council on August 4, 2026.

                                                           Certified by
                                                                          Laura Hurley, Council Ad
