                                   RESOLUTION NO. 26-07

A RESOLUTION OF THE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF QUEEN ANNE’S COUNTY
ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY MORATORTUM ON THE APPLICATION, APPROVAL
OF, OR PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS FOR DATA CENTERS IN QUEEN ANNE’S
COUNTY;

         WHEREAS, data centers are buildings or group of buildings, that may be large-scale, that
house computer systems and infrastructure used to process, store, and transmit vast amounts of
digital information and require substantial amounts of electricity, water, and land, and may place
significant strains on local energy grids, water resources and public infrastructure, while also
raising concerns regarding environmental impacts, noise and compatibility with residential and
other land uses;

       AND WHEREAS, the need and desire for data centers have increased creating a greater
concern throughoLit the State of Maryland and nationwide;

        AND WHEREAS, ii is apparent that Queen Anne’s County’s existing zoning and other
regulatory framework does not sufficiently address and account for the scale, impacts and
operational characteristics of contemporary data center development;

        AND WHEREAS, a strategic and temporary moratorium on the application, processing,
and approval of data center development would provide the County with thc necessary time to
conduct coinprehensivc studies, engage with residents and stakeholders, and develop appropriatc
policies, performance standard recommendations. and zoning regulations to guide future data
center development;

        AND WHEREAS, the impact of data centers necessitates the need for a moratorium to
afford the County adequate time to study and draft a Zoning Code update for this land use;

         AND WHEREAS, this moratorium is not intended to prohibit data center development
permanently but to ensure that where and if such development occurs, it does so in a manner that
is safe, sustainable, and in the best interests of the residents of Queen Anne’s County;

       AND THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED this                day of                        .2026, by
thc County Commissioners of Queen Anne’s County, Maryland, as follows:t’

       Section 1. Neither the Queen Anne’s County Department of Planning and Zoning nor
any other County Department, Agency, Board, or Commission shall accept, process, or approve
any application, permit, or submittal for a data center in Queen Anne’s County for a period of
twelve (12) months front the data hereof.

      Section 2. This moratorium is adopted to allow sufficient time for the County to
accomplish the following:

               a. Conduct comprehensive studies and engage with residents and stakeholders;
               b. Consider any revisions to the County Zoning Ordinance and any other
                  applicable County Ordinances. Policies or Regulationsz and
               c. Consider such other matters as the County Commissioners deem appropriate
                  to address the concerns recked herein.

        Section 3. The County Commissioners shall have and reserve the right to extend or
modify this moratorium for such additional period or periods and on such terms and conditions
as it deems necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Queen Anne’s County.

         Section 4. If any section .subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Resolution or of
the codes hereby adopted are, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Resolution or those codes.

       Section 5. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its enactment.



      WITNESS the hands and seals of the County Commissioners of Queen Anne’s County,
Maryland the day and year above written.



ATTEST:                                               THE COUNTY COMMISSLONERS OF
                                                      QUEEN ANNE’S COUNTY




                                                      J


                                                      Jack N.


                                                      Christo her M. C rchiarino


                                                      Philip If Dum nil

%4d/4ey
                                                      P’Patrick McLaughlin
