                                         AGENDA
                         COUNTY COUNCIL OF WICOMICO COUNTY, MARYLAND
                       Room 301, Government Office Building, Salisbury, Maryland

                                      LEGISLATIVE SESSION 2026-16
August 4, 2026                                                                                          6:00 p.m.

6:00 p.m.             John T. Cannon, President
                      Call meeting to order
                      Invocation – Rev. Dr. Vaughn Hayden, Trinity United Methodist Church
                      Pledge of Allegiance

                      Consent Agenda
                         • Approval of Legislative Minutes from July 21, 2026
                         • Approval of Open Work Session Minutes from July 21, 2026 – Proposed Legislation
                            to Decouple the Sale of Liquor from Restaurants
                         • Approval of Open Work Session Minutes from July 21, 2026 - Quarterly Work
                            Session with the Board of Education

                      Proclamation to Recognize the Month of August as Black Philanthropy Month – the Black
                      Excellence Community Fund; Presented by Councilman James Winn, At-Large
                      Representative

Please note that the agenda items and order are subject to change at the discretion of the Council President.

Public Hearings are scheduled for a specific time and will not begin prior to the designated time shown in the
public notice. However, depending on the pace of the meeting and length of the previous subject matter, the
start time may be delayed.

                      Laura Hurley, Council Administrator:
                      1. Public Hearing: Resolution No. 125-2026 - Establishing a Temporary Moratorium on the
                         Acceptance, Processing, Review, Approval, and Issuance of Permits, Site Plans,
                         Development Approvals, and Other Authorizations for Data Centers Pending the
                         Review and Adoption of Appropriate County Regulations - Ms. Tracey Taylor, Director
                         of Planning, Zoning and Community Development

                      Robert Benson, Esq., Council Attorney:
                      1. Public Hearing: Legislative Bill No. 2026-05 - AN ACT to Amend Chapter 39 of the
                         Wicomico County Code to Recognize the Wicomico County Fire Chiefs Association
                         as a Countywide Organization Representing the Fire Chiefs of the Volunteer Fire
                         Departments Providing Fire Protection and Emergency Services within Wicomico
                         County and to Provide for its Participation in Discussions and Negotiations
                         Concerning Countywide Fire Service Agreements and Policies - Mr. Curtis Kennedy,
                         President of the Fire Chiefs Association, and Mr. Billy White, Vice President of the Fire
                         Chiefs Association
                      2. Public Hearing: Legislative Bill No. 2026-06 - AN ACT to Amend Chapter 22 of the
                         Wicomico County Code Titled “County Property,” Section 22-1, to Provide the
                         Procedure for the Disposition of Surplus County Property other than by Public Auction
                      3. Public Hearing: Legislative Bill No. 2026-07 - Bond Bill - Ms. Pam Oland, Director of
                         Finance
                      4. Introduction: Legislative Bill No. 2026-09 - AN ACT to Amend the Airport Turning Radius
                         of the A-2 Airport Overlay District on the Wicomico County Zoning Map - Mr. Tony
                         Rudy, Director of Aviation, and Ms. Tracey Taylor, Director of Planning, Zoning and
                         Community Development
                                                        1
                  5. Introduction: Legislative Bill No. 2026-10 - AN ACT to Repeal and Replace the Official
                     Critical Area Map of Wicomico County – Ms. Tracey Taylor, Director of Planning,
                     Zoning and Community Development

                  Anjali Chatelle, CPA, Internal Auditor:
                  1. Resolution No. 126-2026 - Adopting the Annual Audit Plan for Fiscal Year Ending June
                     30, 2027
                  2. Resolution No. 127-2026 - Approving a Hotline Services Contract between
                     Complianceline, LLC and Wicomico County, Maryland.

                  Public Comments - Please limit all public comments to three minutes or less; any
                  presented material may be submitted to Councilmembers - Please include 10 copies.
                  Derogatory remarks, personal attacks, obscene language, and disruptive behavior, such
                  as shouting, stomping feet, and booing will not be permitted. An individual may be
                  removed from the meeting if it is determined that the behavior of the person is disruptive.

                  Council Comments

                  Council President’s Comments

                  Adjourn

The County Council reserves the right to close a portion of this meeting as authorized by Section 3-305(b)(1)
and Section 3-104 of the General Provisions Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland.




                                                    2
