HELENA CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION August 10, 2026, 5:30PM

PRE-COUNCIL: Work Session

A discussion and review of City Council agenda items, projects, department, committee, and board liaison
reports, and tasks assigned for City operations and business.

All Members present. Work Session started at 5:32PM.
1.Review 08/10/2026 Agenda Items

Brooke Dodson went over the agenda and asked if there were any issues or discussion regarding the items on
the agenda. None were noted at this time.

2. AP/Bill Payments Brooke Dodson stated we received the A/P bill pay report, are there any concerns to be
discussed at this time. None were brought forward.

3. 7/27/2026 Meeting Minutes Review minutes reviewed and no changes at this time.
The minutes were reviewed by all council members, and no changes were noted at this time.
4. Update from Council Boards and Committee Business

Any updates with the boards or committees currently. Andy Healy stated that

There will be a tag grant meeting on August 30, 2026, and we will start talking about the next grants to be
handed out. Thank you to Bill Miller as the shed was moved and that should help the Helena Farmers Market.
There is a HOT board meeting next Monday. Library board meeting was held last week and were able to work
on the budget for the next year with the library board.

5, Dennis Wilson -Discussion about expanding the Helena Utility Board to 5 members. Please reference
ordinance 1037-2026

Currently operates with a 3-member board and they requested to expand it to 5 members. They can then
vote to expand and do not have to come back to council. Quick question, by Cathy Hammann aren't those
positions paid? Dennis Wilson stated that they were and that we must approve it but Dennis Wilson said it is not
in our budget but for the utility board to handle. The utility board would make a recommendation for the
appointment. Jeff McDaniels had a couple questions regarding this. 151 Recognizes that community
involvement is a part of the process. The seats that are currently occupied and are based on the current
board and we are addressing the govt board. Adding two additional seats could complicate that. The issue
could be accountability. We are going to add gratuity to serving. Brooke Dodson thinks that expanding
makes the utility board more representative of the community of our size. The cost factor is minimal. Dennis
Wilson was asked about the term of office, and he stated the most recent appointee was done on 11/25. We
established a roll off after 2 years and another person comes on. There is curently nothing in our ordinance
that prevents them from re-applying. Jeff McDaniels stated that technically 33 percent of the board could
change by the 1st quarter of the year. Dennis Wilson stated that as the liaison that all are a part of the water
works industry and it would be great to have someone who is a regular citizen on board. Andy Healy 3 on the
board and if we go to 5 where does it state that they must be paid. Can they go without pay? Dennis Wilson
stated that they must follow current byjaws. Nothing further this time.

6. Sign up for public comment-Sign in with City Clerk between work session and council meeting.

Next meeting August 24, 2026, work session at SPM.

There being no further business, the work session was dismissed at 5:48PM.

SIGNED:
oke Dodson

Council President



j

HELENA CITY COUNCIL August 10, 2026

MINUTES HELENA CITY COUNCIL
REGULAR MEETING
August 10, 2026

The Council of the City of Helena met in a regularly scheduled meeting on Monday night, August 10, 2026, in the Helena
Municipal Building at 6:00 P.M., the regular place and time for holding said meetings.

] Brooke Dodson called the meeting to order at 6:01 P.M.
2. Madz Blumstein led the prayer.

3. The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Brooke Dodson

4

4.

Roll Call
Present: Cathy Hammann, Andy Healy, Brooke Dodson, Jeff McDaniels and Dennis Wilson
doe Financial Director Patti Morrow, Police Chief Mike Wood, Library Director Dan Dearing, Chief Miller, Bill Miller
and others (see attached list)
Brooke Dodson declared a quorum present, and meeting was open for business.

5. Minutes Approved/Corrected from Prior Meeting(s) 7/27/2026

Jeff McDaniels made a motion to approve the work session and regular meeting minutes from July 27, 2026, with a second
by Andy Healy. The following votes were cast:

AYE: Cathy Hammann, Andy Healy, Brooke Dodson, Jeff McDaniels and Dennis Wilson
NAY: None

Motion carried and minutes accepted.

6. Revenue Report: Bill Payment

Brooke Dodson stated that everyone had received the financial report via email. Were there any questions regarding this?
No questions were posed at this time. Jeff McDaniels made a motion to approve the bills with a second by Dennis Wilson.
The following votes were cast:

AYE: Cathy Hammann, Andy Healy, Dennis Wilson, Brooke Dodson, Jeff McDaniels
NAY: None

Motion carried.

7. Municipal Operations Report from Mayor Billy Rosener:

Brooke Dodson stated that the mayor was not available for the meeting tonight as he was moving his daughter in to college
and sent a report over via email. He stated that budget preparations had begun and he hoped to have public works, admin

and court ready to view by the next council meeting and that we will call a special called meeting to hear the budget
information for the police department and fire department.



8. Resolution Act 2026-608 Approval of RSA one-time lump sum payment for retirees and beneficiaries of deceased retirees.

Brooke Dodson read the resolution and the approval of the one-time lump sum was discussed. Cathy Hammann asked Patti
Morrow if this would come out of the 2026 FY budget or the 2027 FY budget. Patti stated that it would come out in 2027, but
she would check to make sure. Jeff McDaniels asked how many retirees we currently had that would benefit from this one-
time lump sum payment and a specific number was not known at this time. The city clerk told council she would get them
that information. There being nothing further, Jeff McDaniels made a motion to approve resolution Act 2026-608 with a
second from Andy Healy. The following votes were cast using a roll call vote:

AYE: Cathy Hammann, Andy Healy, Brooke Dodson, Jeff McDaniels and Dennis Wilson
NAY: None

Motion carried. Resolution passed.

9. First Reading-Ordinance 1043-226 Amended-To Provide for a temporary suspension on the establishment or expansion of
gas stations, auto parts/mechanic shops, automobile or manufacture home dealerships and data centers.

A summary was read of the amended ordinance by Jeff McDaniels and there was a discussion that the only change was the
radius of 500 feet instead of 1000 feet. Jeff McDaniels noted that this amended ordinance was posted on the city website
for public viewing.

Public Comment:

1. Frances Hinds-2744 Helena Road-She stated that she lives across the street and does not want an oil change right
by her home. She asked them to look at that.

There being no further discussion, Cathy Hammann made a motion for immediate consideration but there was no second to
her motion. Motion did not pass and it will go to August 24, 2026, meeting for a second reading and a vote.

10. Period for Public Comment - 3 Minutes per Resident, to Sign in with City Clerk between Work Session and Council Meeting
Residents wanting to speak will sign-in with City Clerk prior to the meeting and will be given three minutes to speak.

1. Tom Stansbury-146 Cedar Bend Drive-Councilman Wilson stated that he welcomed input from the community but
would like solutions as well, Mr, Stansbury stated that Helena does not need another amateur solution but we nee
proposals and we need people to speak up about whether they have a solution or not. My current issue is with the
magazine. This is a waste of citizens’ money, and we should look at other options such as allowing those to want fo
view it to subscribe to it. We do not need about of pictures of the same thing, and the total ad pages were 95.
Also, this past one had information on Shelby County businesses and that is not for Helena residents.

Jeff McDaniels responded to Mr. Stansbury and the audience by stating that this issue was discussed in the July 27, 2026,
meeting and the total savings he believes were around $40,000. He stated that this does not address alll the issues, but that
amount of savings will help.

2. Frances Hinds-2744 Helena Road- She said she initially came for the retirement lump sum information as she was
afraid her money was going to be cut. She said again that we do not need another oil change, but you will not
listen to her.

Dennis Wilson then made a motion to amend the agenda for a summary on 1037-2026 with a second from Jeff McDaniels.
The following votes were cast:

AYE: Cathy Hammann, Andy Healy, Brooke Dodson, Jeff McDaniels and Dennis Wilson
NAY: None

The motion carried and the summary was read. The only difference is to expand the ordinance from 3-5 and change the
wording to state that is moved from 3 and they can choose to go all the way up to 7 members. There was no further discussion
and no public comment at this time.

13. Council Comments

Jeff McDaniels:

Dennis Wilson: Thank you to the community for showing up. The community suffered a great loss as the captain of the wrestling

team. We would like to honor his memory and please keep the family in your prayers. Someone from the audience asked
the young man’s name and Dennis Wilson gave it out.



Cathy Hammann: Thank you for being here as always. The budget season is a stressful season, and we would appreciate it if
you would keep us in your thoughts and prayers.

Jeff McDaniels: | would like the city attorney to re-visit our short-term rental ordinance so we can discuss that. As Thursday
begins a new school year, please pray for all the parents and teachers. We thank you and hope for a great school year.

Andy Healy: Also excited about the new staff this year. My daughter is a freshman in high school this year and hopes for a
safe year. We appreciate all the SRO’s as they are getting ready for the new year with new traffic maps and school traffic.
lam sure that Chief Wood is happy to get the new year started. Do not forget that the tag grant meeting is on August 30,
202. We will soon begin budgeting and would appreciate the prayers.

Brooke Dodson: Appreciate you all coming out. | also want to state that | appreciate all the teaching staff as they head
back to school for the new year. | also have a 9h grader beginning school this year and blessings and prayers for all, For the
first time in 30 years, my wife did not have to go back to school as she is now retired.

16. Adjourn

The meeting was adjourned at 6:32pm.

ATTEST: SIGNED:
ky in Brooke Dodson

City Clerk Council President

