City of Chelsea
Pre-Council Minutes
July 21st, 2026

Members of the Chelsea City Council met in a regular scheduled pre-council meeting on July 21st,
2026 at 5:00 P.M. with Council President Scott Weygand calling the meeting to order. The meeting
was held in the Conference Room and open to the public.

The following elected officials were found to be present:
Mayor Cody Sumners
Councilmember Johnna Barnes
Councilmember Scott Weygand
Councilmember Chris Grace
Councilmember Casey Morris

The following elected officials were found to be absent:
Councilmember Arthur Fisher Jr.

Others present: City Attorney Mark Boardman, CFO Wayne Barber, and City Clerk Crystal
Etheredge

Mayor Sumners gave a brief update on various ongoing projects and announced the Storybrook
Trail project should begin around August 9th.

CFO Wayne Barber presented a brief financial report.

Crystal Mauldin, HR Director, explained the DATS program (Digital Action Tracking System)
requested and the city-wide benefits.

Josh Obsorne, Shelby County Urban County Program, encouraged Chelsea’s continued
participation in the CDBG Urban County Program.

Wayne Morris, PIO, presented some drone aerial shots of the Competition Tennis Complex.

A motion to remove Resolution #1409 from the agenda was made by Casey Morris and seconded
by Johnna Barnes. A voice vote was taken, and it was a unanimous, “Yes”. Council President
Weygand scheduled a special called city council meeting for Monday, July 27", 2026 at 8:00AM

to award the residential garbage collection and disposal bid so everyone could attend.

After additional discussion of the agenda items, Casey Morris made a motion to adjourn the pre-
council meeting which was seconded by Johnna Barnes. The council adjourned at 5:54 P.M.

Approval Date: __ S uf ld Q_
Certification: A 7 t., J
Scott Weyganc €$uncil President
{ f)
Attest: oJ ‘a 0) Ya
ty ek

Crystal Etheredge, Ci



July 21, 2026 Regular City Council Session

The City Council of the City of Chelsea, Alabama, met in a regular scheduled city council
session on July 21, 2026, at 6:00 P.M. at Chelsea City Hall. Council President Scott Weygand
called the meeting to order. James Daniels (Chelsea Presbyterian Church) opened the meeting
with prayer. Councilmember Chris Grace led the council in the Pledge of Allegiance.

The following elected officials were found to be present:
Mayor Cody Sumners
Councilmember Johnna Barnes
Councilmember Scott Weygand
Councilmember Chris Grace
Councilmember Casey Morris

The following elected official was found to be absent:
Councilmember Arthur Fisher, Jr.

Council President Weygand declared a quorum present.

A motion to approve the amended agenda was made by Casey Morris and seconded by Johnna
Barnes. A voice vote was taken, and it was a unanimous, "Yes".

A motion to approve July 7", 2026 Pre-council and Regular City Council Mecting Minutes and the
July 14%, 2026 Special Called City Council Work Session Minutes was made by Casey Morris and
seconded by Chris Grace. A voice vote was taken, and it was a unanimous, “Yes”.

Next, Resolution 2026-07-21-1405 to appoint Denny Hodges to the Planning Commission was on
the agenda. A motion to approve the appointment of Denny Hodges to the Planning Commission
was made by Casey Morris and seconded by Johnna Barnes. A voice vote was taken, and it was a
unanimous, “Yes”.

Resolution 2026-07-21-1406 to enact a moratorium for certain business licenses and building
permits was next on the agenda. A motion to enact the moratorium on residential rental
communities was made by Chris Grace and seconded by Johnna Barnes. A voice vote was taken,
and it was a unanimous, “Yes”.

Resolution 2026-07-21-1407 to enact a moratorium for certain business licenses and building
permits was next on the agenda. A motion to enact the moratorium on data centers was made by
Casey Morris and seconded by Chris Grace. A voice vote was taken, and it was a unanimous,
“Yes”.

Resolution 2026-07-21-1408 to authorize Mayor to sign Cooperative Agreement to participate in
the Shelby Urban County program for FY2027-2029 was next on the agenda. A motion to
authorize the Mayor to sign the Cooperative Agreement was made by Johnna Barnes and seconded
by Casey Morris. A voice vote was taken, and it was a unanimous, “Yes”.

Resolution 2026-07-21-1410 to appoint Regions Bank as paying agent for GO Warrants was next
on the agenda. A motion to appoint Regions Bank as the paying agent for the GO Warrants was
made by Chris Grace and seconded by Johnna Barnes. A voice vote was taken, and it was a
unanimous, “Yes”.


A motion to approve of City of Chelsea Bills to be paid was made by Johnna Barnes and seconded
by Casey Morris. A voice vote was taken, and it was a unanimous, “Yes”.

Next, Mayor Sumners gave a brief update on multiple ongoing projects.

During the Community Forum, Lisa Frost, Chelsea Public Library, announced summer reading had
concluded with increased participation numbers, and the Dino Dewey was a huge hit.

Additionally, the Musical Munchkins and Tot Time programs would be returning to the library in
September; however, would be at the Chelsea Community Center through August.

Brandy Pate, Event Coordinator, announced the Farmer’s Market has continued to grow this
season and will be ending on August 1* with sixty vendors participating. She also mentioned

several upcoming events like the Car Show and Blue/White Day on August 15".

Council President Weygand announced the special called city council meeting on July 27" at
8:00AM to award the garbage bid.

There being no further business, a motion to adjourn was made by Casey Morris and seconded
by Johnna Barnes. A voice vote was taken, and it was a unanimous, "Yes".

Time: 6:20 P.M.

Approval Date: - 42

Certification:

Scott Weygand, G 4] President

wwe St ) Vaasa o
CrystarEtheredge, ity @lerk

