HELENA CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION June 22, 2026, 5:00PM

PRE-COUNCIL: Work Session

A discussion and review of City Council agenda items, projects, department, committee, and board liaison reports, and
tasks assigned for City operations and business.

All Members present except Dennis Wilson. Work Session started at 5:00PM.

1. Review 06/08/2026 Agenda Items
e ~~ AP/Bill Payments
¢ 05/11/2026 and 05/20/2026 Meeting Minutes Review

2. Update from Council Boards and Committee Business

Councilman Healy stated that the Farmers Market continues to be extremely popular since moving the location to Cahaba
Lily Park; vendors are selling out and we have more vendors than we have space. There is currently a waiting list for the
market now. President Dodson stated that the Library Board and Planning and Zoning will be presenting their quarterly
reports tonight and they will become a part of the minutes. and will be meeting soon to get that underway and will
present a quarterly report at the next meeting. Councilwoman Hammann asked Mayor Rosener about the status of the rose
bushes, and he said that he would get some clarification to get this handled as quickly as possible. Councilwoman
Hammann stated that the caboose will be getting a refresh and the fire department is going to pressure wash and get
everything ready. The goal is to have it completed by the July 3 concert and fireworks.

3. Discussion of 2025 FYE Audit

Walker Gann with our auditors (formerly Dent Moses) now Doeren Mayhew was at the meeting to present the audit
information (see attached documents) which will become a part of the minutes. He stated that he had met with Mayor
Rosener and our financial director last week regarding the audit. He stated that one of the biggest changes was that the
utility department is no longer presented with our report. He stated he is available to answer all questions related to the
audit. The plan to place this on July 13, 2026, meeting.

4. Executive Session

Brian Hayes, city attorney, requested that the council go into executive session with an invitation extended to the city clerk
to discuss pending litigation. Brooke Dodson made a motion to enter an executive session with an invitation to the city clerk
with a second from Cathy Hammann.

Council adjourned into executive session at 5:35pm.

Council returned from executive session at 5:45pm. Andy Healy to re-convene with a second from Jeff McDaniels. The
following votes were cast with a roll call vote:

AYE: Hammann, McDaniels, Dodson, Healy
Motion carried.

Meeting re-convened at 5:47pm.

5. Discussion Trail Expansion

Blair Perry city engineer came to present information regarding the expansion of the Hillsboro trail and what that may look
like. Blair showed a map of the possible changes and expansion of the trail and there was discussion of this.
Councilwoman Hamman then asked about the bypass and if it would interfere with these changes. Mayor Rosener stated
he had talked to DOT and they said it not even going to be on the radar in at least 20-25 years. But when/if it was a
possibility, it would not interfere with the trail expansion.



6. Discussion of E-Bikes

City attorney Brian Hayes discussed that there continued to be social media posts regarding this, and we are looking into an
ordinance for this. We have enforcement currently on Hillsboro trail to make sure that there are not any issues with e-bikes.
He also stated that the State of Alabama is looking to re-codifying the 3 classifications of bikes. There will need to be a
resolution or ordinance brought to the table regarding E-Bikes similar to the LSV ordinance the city has in place.

7. Discussion of Ordinance 1043-2026 to provide for the suspension on the Establishment or Expansion of certain businesses
within in the B-2, B-3, M-1 or M-2 zoning districts.

Councilman McDaniels stated that the ordinance has been drafted and each council member has had the opportunity to
read over it and make revisions as needed. He stated that he felt that the ordinance was a good start to begin to help the
city determine the types of businesses we would like to see come into the zones for a nice variety going forward. He would
like to see if given immediate consideration at the council meeting. Councilwoman Hammann appreciated that data
centers were added to this ordinance.

8. Discussion of the City Donation Policy Resolution

Councilwoman Hammann stated that this was drafted with considerable assistance from city attorney Brian Hayes and that
it was greatly appreciated. The resolution is in place and the only area she would possibly like to see amended is that both
the council and mayor approve the donation. There was continued discussion regarding the policy and resolution and it
was placed on the council agenda for a first reading.

9. Discussion public nuisance/unsafe structure-4734 Hollow Lane Helena, Al 35080

Keith Martin City of Helena building official presented the information regarding this property and stated that we needed a
better abatement and condemnation process. There are several properties that will fall under this issue, and the process
needs to be addressed so that we can make sure that these properties are cleaned up or condemned for the safety of the
residents who live nearby and the City of Helena. Councilwoman Hammann asked if this house had been condemned
before and Mr. Martin stated that the process was begun before but never completed so we have to start over. She also
reminded Mr. Martin that we had to be careful going on this property without proper procedure followed. This was not placed
on the agenda as the condemnation ordinance needs to be looked at and possibly amended prior to further proceedings
with other properties. Currently there are 6 or 7 other properties that have been brought to the attention of the City.

7. Confirmation of Next Meeting
Next meeting July 13; work session at 5PM.

There being no further business, the work session was dismissed at 6:10PM.

Kym Rollan Brooke Dodson
City Clerk Council President



|

HELENA CITY COUNCIL June 22, 2026

MINUTES HELENA CITY COUNCIL
REGULAR MEETING
June 22, 2026

The Council of the City of Helena met in a regularly scheduled meeting on Monday night, June 22, 2026, in the Helena
Municipal Building at 6:00 P.M., the regular place and time for holding said meetings.

1. Council President Brooke Dodson called the meeting to order at 6:20 P.M.
2. Reverend Scott Howard, Lamb of God Anglican Church led the prayer.
3. The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Andy Healy.

4. Roll Call

Present: Cathy Hammann, Andy Healy, Brooke Dodson, Jeff McDaniels

Absent: Dennis Wilson

Visitors: Building Official Keith Martin, Police Chief Mike Wood, Library Director Dan Dearing, and others (see attached
list)

Council President Brooke Dodson declared a quorum present, and meeting was open for business.
5. Minutes Approved/Corrected from Prior Meeting(s)

Andy Healy made a motion to approve the work session and regular meeting minutes with one correction from June 8, 2026,
with a second by Jeff McDaniels. The following votes were cast:

AYE: Cathy Hammann, Andy Healy, Brooke Dodson, Jeff McDaniels
NAY: None
Motion carried and minutes accepted.

6. Revenue Report: Bill Payment

Andy Healy made a motion to approve the bills with a second by Jeff McDaniels. The following votes were cast:
AYE: Cathy Hammann, Andy Healy, Dennis Wilson, Brooke Dodson, Jeff McDaniels

NAY: None

Motion carried. Bills to be paid after the 24-hour mark per Cathy Hammann

7. Municipal Operations Report from Mayor Billy Rosener:

Great turnout tonight, | will try to keep it short since we have a busy meeting tonight. Thank you to the Thank you to the
Kiwanis club for the for all the work they are doing around town. They had a poker run this past weekend with over 30
applicants, cleaned up Joe Tucker and made some much-needed repairs. Daniel with Helena Hardware donated the fish
for the pond and we appreciate all the hard work the Kiwanis club is doing to make Helena look good. There is a blood
drive scheduled for June 30, 2026, at the parking lot of The Church at Old Town. Please come out and support a good
cause and vote for the police department or fire department as they are having a competition. July 18, 2026, HPD is
hosting a safety rodeo from 9am-11am at the Public Safety Center. The city has been notified that the railroad tracks
closest to the depot will be closed on Monday, July 6, 2026, for repairs which could take up to 48 hours. The Baby Box
Blessing will be held Tuesday, June 23, 2026, at 2:00pm at Fire Station number 2. Thank you to councilwoman Hammann for
all your hard work on this endeavor. There are several library events for the summer reading program coming up with the
Fire Department tour this week. The last day to participate in the summer reading program is July 11, 2026, per Dan Dearing
so get out and get involved in the program. The 250 celebration coincides with Old Town live, and a local Jessie Crowe
will start the show with Monsters of Yacht coming on at 8:00pm with fireworks to follow at 9:00pm.

——



8. Recognition - 2"4 Lieutenant James E. Roberson- Graduation from United States Air Force Academy
Presented by Jeff McDaniels

9. Proclamation - National Society of Daughter of the American Revolution Celebrating America’s 250
Presented by Mayor Billy Rosener.

10. Quarterly Reports from: Planning and Zoning and Library Board

Presented by Planning and Zoning Chairman Bob Caliento and Library Dept Head Dan Dearing. Reports emailed prior to
the meeting are available in the packet.

11. Approve/Deny - First Reading-Resolution 06222026-ADMIN-City of Helena, Alabama Donation Policy

Brooke Dodson read the resolution and stated that we needed to have a policy in place for donations made to the city as
recently some artwork was donated and there needs to be clarification and a record of any donations. There were no
questions from the council.

Public Comment: Deb Losey 151 Moss Bend Drive stated that this had not been read by all the citizens and there should be
time for that to happen. She asked that they not discuss this so the residents can read through it.

Cathy Hammann stated the resolution is to keep everything clean and Jeff McDaniels stated that the packet is available on
the city website for all residents to view and are published as public records. The resolution will be presented for a second
reading and vote on Monday, July 13, 2026, at the council meeting.

12. Approve/Deny - Extension of Resolution 06232025B declaring a temporary moratorium on stores that sell or intent to sell
hemp and/or vape products

Brian Hayes was asked about this resolution and explained that it was passed in 2025 and set to expire. This is a moratorium
on those products being sold in the city limits of Helena. An extension is needed or the moratorium will no longer be in place
as it expires soon.

Public Comment: Deb Losey-15] Moss Bend Drive-Asked that the council table this as the residents have not had a chance
to read it.

Brooke Dodson and Jeff McDaniels stated that the packet is available on the city website for the residents to read.

Jeff McDaniels made a motion to approve resolution 06232025B to extend the moratorium with a second from Andy Healy
and the following votes were cast using a roll call vote:

AYE: Cathy Hammann, Andy Healy, Brooke Dodson, and Jeff McDaniels
NAY: None
Motion carried. Resolution extended.

13. First Reading-Ordinance 1043-2026-Ordinance to provide for the suspension on the establishment or expansion of certain
businesses within the B-2, B-3, M-1 or M-2 zoning districts.

Jeff McDaniels read excerpts from the ordinance and stated that this was discussed in work session at the June 8, 2026,
meeting and that Brian Hayes drafted the ordinance and the council sent over adjustments and notes to reach a draft version
of this. No comments or questions currently from the council.

Public comment
1.Deb Losey-151 Moss Bend Drive-Asked how long the moratorium was in place for, and Jeff McDaniels stated 180 days or 6
months. She then asked if the council would extend it to a year.

Cathy Hammann stated that it can be amended or extended after 180 days and that should be sufficient. Brooke Dodson
then stated that several of the issues covered in this ordinance are being addressed during the update of the zoning
ordinance and should resolve themselves at that time. Jeff McDaniels asked for immediate consideration of this ordinance
and unanimous consent.

2. Dan Nathan Chateau Drive asked about Highway 261 specifically the Old Town area and why that was not included in the
ordinance. Mayor Rosener explained that there is a renaissance district zone that is specific to that area.


3.Tom Stansbury-146 Cedar Bend Drive-Asked the procedural question regarding unanimous consent and the fact that if one
council member is missing would that be considered unanimous consent. City attorney Brian Hayes stated that there is a
quorum and that is enough for the vote.

There being no further discussion, Andy Healy made a motion for immediate consideration with a second from Jeff McDaniels.
The following votes were cast with a roll call vote:

AYE: Cathy Hammann, Andy Healy, Brooke Dodson, and Jeff McDaniels
NAY: None
Motion carried.

t

| Jeff McDaniels then made a motion to approve with unanimous consent ordinance 1043-2026 with a second from Cath
Hammann. The following votes were cast using a roll call vote:
}
|

| AYE: Cathy Hammann, Andy Healy, Brooke Dodson, and Jeff McDaniels
NAY: None
Motion carried with unanimous consent.

| 14. Second reading Re-zone request from B1-Neighborhood Business District to B2-General Business District 5248 Highway 17-
_ 5248 Highway 17-Parcel 138 28 1 001 018.000-City of Helena requesting.

This item was withdrawn by the applicant, and no public hearing was to be held at this time.

15. Second reading Re-zone request from B1-Neighborhood Business District to B2-General Business District-2698 Helena

Road-Store Growth and Development LLC, with a recommendation to deny from Planning and Zoning Commission on
5/21/2026

Dan Nathan stood up from the audience and stated that the audio for the live feed was not working at this time. A 5-minute
recess was taken to fix the audio issues.

| The meeting resumed and Brooke Dodson asked if the applicant would like to speak regarding the application. Andrew
| Wilson stood up on behalf of Store Growth & Development and stated that they presented their case at the prior meeting
| and would like to have the property re-zoned to B2. No council comments or questions at this time and the meeting was
opened for public comment on this item.

Public Comment:

| 1. Frances Hinds-2744 Helena Road-Her family has been in this town for 6 generations and served in a city or volunteer
i capacity. Please be merciful.

2. Yvette Trussell-725 24 Street-She stated that her parents built the house she lives in more than 100 years ago and that
if you come to the work sessions the information is helpful. She stated that B1 has a nice variety to it and something
good can go in there that will bring in revenue.

| 3. Resident at 1070 Chateau Drive-Asked why this issue was being voted on if it has been turned down before?

Brooke Dodson explained that the Planning and Zoning Commission are just a recommending body and the council votes
whether to approve or deny.

There being no further discussion Andy Healy made a motion to deny the rezone request with a second from Jeff McDaniels.
The following votes were cast using a roll call vote:

AYE: Andy Healy, Brooke Dodson, and Jeff McDaniels
ABSTAIN: Cathy Hamman
NAY: None

Motion carried with unanimous consent.
16. Period for Public Comment - 3 Minutes per Resident, to Sign in with City Clerk between Work Session and Council Meeting
Residents wanting to speak will sign-in with City Clerk prior to the meeting and will be given three minutes to speak.

1. Tom Stansbury-146 Cedar Bend Drive-He would like to applaud council for being transparent and their work in making the
meetings and information available to the public. He stated that best practice is that there needs to be more time for the



information to be viewed by the public and for public comments. At least 3 days in advance the agenda and packet
should be posted.

2. Deb Losey-151 Moss Bend Drive- Stated that she has done quite a bit of research, and she felt like the passing of the 6-
month moratorium was too fast. She provided information to all regarding data centers and how some council and boards
sign NDA and confidentiality agreements with data centers and that can get them into trouble. She offered the
information if anyone wanted it after the meeting.

17. Council Comments
Andy Healy:

Thank you to all who came, some familiar faces and some new ones. Please keep coming out to the meetings. There are
many summer events to enjoy and please come out to the Helena Market Days, as they are turning away vendors and many
are selling out before the market is over.

Dennis Wilson: Absent

Cathy Hammann:

Thank you for being here, it takes time and effort on your part, and we appreciate you. Also, on June 23 at 2PM will be the
blessing for the new Baby Box installed at Fire Station #2, please come join us if you're able.
The Caboose will be getting a refresh and the 250" celebration will be held on Friday, July 3, 2026, down at the Amphitheater.

Jeff McDaniels:

Mayor Rosener, we appreciate you, support you and working with you to make the city as efficient as possible. | do have a
few questions regarding some of the information requested such as:

1. Contracts that exceed $30,000 that are about to expire

2. The 5248 Highway 17 re-zone request. When will the city bring this back or will they??

3. Fee schedules that were requested.

Mayor Rosener explained that with the new transitions and role changes there are some areas that needed immediate
attention and those have been the focus. The requests made have not been ignored and are being worked on as time
allows. Mayor Rosener also responded to the re-zone request question and stated the city had no immediate plans to bring
this request back before the council.

Jeff McDaniels:

On July 9, 2026, the parks department will be hosting a lunch and learn for the senior citizens that addresses fraud. This event
is at 11:00 and this demographic is the hardest hit by fraud.

Brooke Dodson:

To close out, this particular Independence Day, the celebration of 250 years is especially historic and important. For some
history, | attended Birmingham Southern College and my major was history. My school is now a coast guard training facility.
| have a deep appreciation of our republic, and this is a very important moment in our Nation's history. We have 2 veterans
on our council, and | am sure more in the audience tonight. Have a Happy 4! of July and we appreciate you all being here.

21. Adjourn
There being no further business meeting was adjourned at 7:29 pm.

ATTEST: SIGNED:
Kyfn Rollan > Brooke Dodson

City Clerk Council President
