ORDINANCE NO. 1043-2026

AN ORDINANCE TO PROVIDE FOR A TEMPORARY SUSPENSION ON THE
ESTABLISHMENT OR EXPANSION OF GAS STATIONS, AUTO PARTS/MECHANIC SHOPS,
AUTOMOBILE OR MANUFACTURED HOME DEALERSHIPS, AND DATA CENTERS.

WHEREAS, the overall health and safety of citizens is the primary consideration that the
governing authority should consider within its comprehensive planning and zoning
regulations; and

WHEREAS, the City of Helena’s Zoning Ordinance currently does not restrict the expansion
of certain districts buildings or use of property within a 1000 feet radius of Highways 17, 52,
58, and 95; and

WHEREAS, -additional Gas Stations, Auto Parts Stores, Mechanic Shops, Automobile
or Manufactured Home Dealerships, and Data Centers within the City of Helena and nearby
locations are not character conforming to the needs of Helena’s Citizens, neighborhoods,
and the overall development strategy for future growth; and

WHEREAS, certain B2, B3, M1, and M2 buildings and land use pose significant
environmental risks to surrounding properties through hazardous waste generation,
chemical spills, potential soil and water contaminations, elevated noise levels, and other
evidence-based health risks; and

WHEREAS, allowing certain B2, B3, M1, or M2 buildings or land use to proceed under
existing zoning categories without further study and possible regulation could result in
buildings and land use that are incompatible with surrounding land uses, particularly those
properties in and/or adjoining B1, B2, M1, or M2 zoning districts; and

WHEREAS, the City of Helena must evaluate and determine proper zoning treatment,
operational standards, environmental impact, economic impact, and other locational
criteria to ensure the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare; and

WHEREAS, a temporary suspension on the establishment or expansion of gas stations, auto
parts stores, mechanic shops, automobile or manufactured home dealerships, and data
centers is necessary to preserve the status quo while the City of Helena studies appropriate



regulatory mechanisms and prepares necessary zoning amendments and other needed
regulations.

SECTION 1. NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council of the City of Helena as
follows:

(a) Definitions:

* B2 — General Business District as defined in the City of Helena, Alabama
Planning and Zoning Ordinance adopted in 2022.

* B3-Mini Warehouse District as defined in the City of Helena, Alabama Planning
and Zoning Ordinance adopted in 2022.

¢ M1- Light Industrial as defined in the City of Helena Planning and Zoning
Ordinance adopted in 2022.

* M2 - Heavy Industrial as defined in the City og Helena Planning and Zoning
Ordinance adopted in 2022.

* Gas Stations - any premises or building used for the retail sale and dispensing
of motor vehicle fuels (such as gasoline and diesel) directly into the fuel tanks of
motor vehicles.

¢ Auto Parts Store — a retail or wholesale establishment primarily engaged in
the sale of new, used, or rebuilt motor vehicle parts, accessories, and
supplies to both consumers and commercial repair shops

* Mechanic Shops — any commercial establishment, person, or business that, for
compensation, engages in the business of diagnosing malfunctions, servicing,
or repairing motor vehicles.

* Automobile Dealerships - a franchised or independent business entity
authorized to engage in the retail sale or lease of new and/or used motor
vehicles to ultimate purchasers.

* Manufactured Home Dealership - any person, firm, or corporation licensed to
engage in the business of buying, selling, exchanging, or offering for sale
manufactured or mobile homes.

¢« Data Center - any facility or structure primarily housing electronic equipment
used to process, store, and transmit digital information.

(b) The purpose of this suspension is, among other reasons, for the City of Helena, through
its officials and staff, to review certain B2, B3, M1, and M2 buildings or land use for gas
stations, auto parts stores, mechanic shops, automobile or manufactured home
dealerships, data centers, other industrial uses and their operations to update and revise
the City of Helena’s zoning ordinance to ensure that the certain B2, B3, M1 and M2
buildings or use of property locate in clearly defined and compatible zoning districts and to
have reasonable operational regulations to prevent negative impacts on the overall



character and the health, safety, and general welfare of the community.

(c) All activities relating to the acceptance, review and action upon new applications for
issuance of building permits, site plan approvals, business licenses and any other official
City of Helena action, excluding zoning applications or zoning board of adjustment actions
received on or before the effective date of this ordinance, that would authorize or permit new
or expanded gas stations, auto parts stores, mechanic shops, automobile or manufactured
home dealerships, data centers, and other industrial uses in any part of the City of Helena
or would create any vested rights that would authorize such new or expanded uses to be
constructed shall be suspended for 180 days from the effective date of this ordinance.

(d) During the time the temporary suspension is in effect and subject to the terms of this
ordinance, the City of Helena will not accept applications or act on any pending applications
for building permits, site plans approvals or any other official City of Helena action for such
activities and no such new activities shall be permitted within the 1000 feet radius of
Highways 17, 52, 58, and 95.

Section 2. This ordinance will become effective upon publication as required by state law
and shall expire one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date, unless rescinded by the
Helena City Council or in the alternative, extended by the Helena City Council.

SECTION 3. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is for any reason
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by declaration of any court of competent jurisdiction,
such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.

SECTION 4. All ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent with this ordinance are hereby
suspended to the extent of such inconsistency.

[SEAL]

Cok. We

Cathy Hah¥mann Council Member

ollan, City Clerk

Dennis Wilson, Council Member

Brooke Dodsén, Council Member

res We Dees
eff McDaniels, Council Member

