                                  Board of Supervisors Minutes
                                          July 20, 2026

The Tama County Board of Supervisors met at 8:30 a.m. July 20, 2026. Present: 1st District
Supervisor, Curt Hilmer; 2nd District Supervisor, David Turner; 3rd District Supervisor, Heather
Knebel; 4th District Supervisor, Mark Doland and 5th District Supervisor, Curt Kupka. Also, Tama
County Assistant Auditor, Michelle Schroeder, and members of the public.

The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Doland to approve the agenda. Discussion: None. All voted aye.
Motion carried.

Public Comments: Public comments were heard from Karen Murty, Marcella Nekola, and Rochelle
Fuller from Senator Grassley’s office.

Motion by Hilmer, seconded by Doland to approve the minutes of the July 14th regular meeting.
Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Supervisor Kupka gave a roads project report.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Doland to approve the following resolution. Discussion: None.
                                 RESOLUTION NO. 7-20-2026A
                              APPROVING AN AMENDMENT TO A
           CHAPTER 28E INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
WHEREAS. Tama County previously entered into an Intergovernmental Agreement pursuant to
Iowa Code Chapter 28E with Central Iowa Juvenile Detention Center (CIJDC) and other
participating entities, which was filed with the Iowa Secretary of State on June 27th, 2012 as Filing
Number M505282 and
WHEREAS, the participating entities have determined that updates, modifications, and
amendments to the original 28E Agreement are necessary
WHEREAS, Central Iowa Juvenile Detention Center has already officially approved and executed
the proposed Amended 28E Agreement in accordance with all current requirements; and
WHEREAS, this Board of Supervisors has reviewed the updated agreement, a copy of which is on
file with the County Auditor, and finds that approving these updates is in the best interest of the
County and its residents.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Supervisors of Tama County, Iowa,
as follows:
Section 1. The updated and amended 28E Intergovernmental Agreement by and between Central
Iowa Juvenile Detention Center and the participating entities is hereby approved in all respects.
Section 2. The board appointed CIJDC representative is hereby authorized and directed to execute
the updated Agreement on behalf of Tama County.
Section 3. Upon execution by all parties, Central Iowa Juvenile Detention Center is directed to file
the fully executed, amended Agreement with the Iowa Secretary of State as required by Iowa Code
Section 28E.8.
Section 4. This resolution shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval as
provided by law.
Roll Call Vote: Hilmer, aye. Turner, aye. Knebel, aye. Doland, aye. Kupka, aye. Resolution
passed and adopted this 20th day of July, 2026. Heather Knebel, Chairwoman, Board of
Supervisors. Michelle Schroeder, Asst. County Auditor.

The engineer’s office has received a utility permit for Nicole Jardine (Alliant Energy). Assistant
Foreman, Nick Kofron, has reviewed the area for this permit and recommends the Board sign the
permit. Motion by Kupka, seconded by Turner to approve utility permit for Nicole Jardine (Alliant
Energy) and authorize the chairman to sign the utility permit. Discussion: None. All voted aye.
Motion carried.

The engineer’s office has received a utility permit for Alliant Energy. Assistant Foreman, Nick
Kofron, has reviewed the area for this permit and recommends the Board sign the permit. Motion
by Kupka, seconded by Hilmer to approve utility permit for Alliant Energy and authorize the
chairman to sign the utility permit. Discussion: It was discussed that this is for new lines due to
upgrading the grid. All voted aye. Motion carried.

The Tama County Sheriff has requested the Board to approve the Dysart Law-Enforcement
Contract. Motion by Doland, seconded by Turner to approve the Dysart Law-Enforcement
Contract. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

The Board discussed retaining Region 6 on the Comprehensive Land Use Plan. No action was
taken.

The Board discussed developing a Strategic Plan for Tama County. No action is needed at this time
due to more research that needs to be done.

The Board reviewed and discussed the Construction Phase Services Agreement with Calhoun-Burns
& Associates for Tama County. Motion by Kupka, seconded by Turner to approve the Construction
Phase Services Agreement with Calhoun-Burns & Associates and authorize the chair to sign the
agreement. Discussion: It was discussed that a licensed engineer is needed to sign contracts. A
couple of engineers were approached and asked if they would be willing to help Tama County with
our contracts and they turned it down stating it is too time consuming. All voted aye. Motion
carried.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Kupka to approve the regular claims for payment as presented in
the amount of $120,360.47. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

New Business: Supervisor Turner informed the Board that new copier/printers have been deployed
and this will help the county save money. Supervisor Kupka informed the Board that the landfill
has traded a couple pieces of equipment and that they are on a good schedule. The landfill will also
be doing a shop expansion and that some equipment no longer fits in the current shop.

Public Comments: Public comments were heard from Karen Murty, Marcella Nekola, Jake
Buchanan, Bob Vokoun, Stacey Zeman, and Rochelle Fuller.
Motion by Doland, seconded by Kupka to adjourn the meeting. All voted aye. Motion carried.
Chairwoman Knebel adjourned the meeting at 9:19 am.
These minutes are intended to provide a summary of the discussions and decisions made during the Board of
Supervisor meeting. For the most accurate and comprehensive record, please refer to the audio recording of the
meeting that can be provided upon request at the auditor’s office.
