                                                                           September 1, 2026

The Shelby County Board of Supervisors met in regular session at 9:00 A.M. in the Supervisors
Chamber in the Courthouse with the following members present: Charles Parkhurst, Mike
Kolbe, Bryce Schaben, and Taryn Knapp, Clerk.

Chairman, Charles Parkhurst, asked that any conflict of interest be stated concerning any item
on the agenda. None was stated

It was moved by Kolbe, seconded by Schaben, to approve the agenda. Motion carried
unanimously.

It was moved by Schaben, seconded by Kolbe to approve the minutes of August 18th, 2026.
Motion carried unanimously.

Schaben made a motion to approve the recently processed claims; Kolbe seconded the motion.
Motion carried unanimously.

Kolbe made a motion to approve ROW permits for FMCTC, Schaben seconded the motion.
Motion carried unanimously.

Engineer Chris Fredericksen then gave a brief department update on griding on Linden Road,
repainted lines and contracted rock haul to stockpiles throughout the County.

Paul Plumb, Shelby County Chamber, thanks the Supervisors for their involvement in Ragbrai
and Silver Dollar Nationals. Plumb then gave an update on events in the community.

Kenny Hansen, EMS Director, gave a department update on grants received and how they
have been utilized. Hansen stated the Audubon transfer agreement went into effect August 1st.
Hansen also stated he is working with the City of Harlan on a shared cost agreement for a
FY28 ambulance purchase.

Supervisors and various department heads attend ISAC for their annual conference.

EMA Coordinator Alex Londo discussed the updates to the Hazard Mitigation Plan for the
County and what the next steps would be to finalize it.

Planning and Zoning Administrator Tony Buman gave an update on the Master Matrix
Scoring and Recommendation for L&S Livestock, LLC Site #1, L&S Livestock, LLC Site #2, and
L&S Livestock III, LLC Site #3. There were no verbal or written comments submitted.

Kolbe made a motion to approve the tax abatement for Parcel 833250006131 in the amount of
$440.00 owned by Concerned Inc. and Schaben seconded the motion. Motion carried
unanimously.
Consideration of tax abatement for property owned by Concerned Inc. with parcel number
833390000059 what tabled with no action taken.

Schaben made a motion to approve the request for tax abatement for property owned by the
City of Panama for parcel number 832410000100 in the amount of $4, Kolbe seconded the
motion. Motion carried unanimously.

Property owner Abby Lopez Hansen submitted a request for tax suspension pursuant to Iowa
Code Section 427.8 for parcel number 831022202002. After discussion Schaben made a motion
to deny the request for tax suspension and Kolbe seconded the motion. Motion carried
unanimously.

Kolbe made a motion to approve the updates to the Shelby County Handbook, Schaben
seconded the motion. Motion carried unanimously.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:41 A.M.




                                                     Charles Parkhurst, Chairman
ATTEST:




Taryn Knapp
Clerk to the Board of Supervisors
