SS

EMMET COUNTY, IOWA — at

ORDINANCE NO. 2026-01

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE 2013 EMMET COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE
BY UPDATING TEXT AND ADDING NEW TEXT TO
ARTICLE XVI. WIND ENERGY REGULATIONS

WHEREAS, the Emmet County Zoning Ordinance and zoning map on file in the office of
the County Assessor designates certain standards as provided by Chapter 335, Code of Iowa, and

WHEREAS, the Emmet County Planning and Zoning Commission has reviewed and
considered the proposed zoning changes, and it is deemed advisable and recommended by the
Planning and Zoning Commission to amend the zoning ordinance.

NOW THEREFORE IT BE ORDAINED, by the Emmet County Board of Supervisors.

Section 1. AMENDED ZONING TEXT. The Emmet County Zoning Ordinance is hereby
amended by repealing the existing Article XVI Wind Energy Regulations and replacing it with the
new Article XVI Wind Energy Regulations, as follows.

ARTICLE XVI

Wind Energy Regulations

Article 16: Wind Energy Regulations
Section 16.1. Intent
Section 16.2. Jurisdiction
Section 16.3, Definitions
Section 16.4. Wind Energy Requirements
Section 16.5. Conditional Use Permit
Section 16.6, Permit Requirements
Section 16.7. Notification
Section 16.8 Review and Approval
Section 16.9. Mitigation of Damages
Section 16.10. Discontinuance or Abandonment
Section 16.11. Liability Insurance
Section 16.12 Safety
Section 16.13 Resolution Protocol
Section 16.14 | Documentation
Section 16.15 Penalty

Section 16.1. INTENT

The intent of this article is to provide for the regulation of owners/developers engaged in the
construction, erection, placement, location and maintenance of wind energy devices in Emmet
County; and to preserve and protect public health and safety.

Section 16.2. JURISDICTION

The regulations stated in this article and adopted by the Emmet County Board of Supervisors
governing all lands within the unincorporated areas of Emmet County, Iowa. This article and its
provisions shall not apply to those properties or projects occurring within the incorporated cities
in Emmet County.

Section 16.3. DEFINITIONS

1. Administrator - Any person or firm appointed by Emmet County Board of Supervisors to
oversee the permitting and compliance of the wind energy device regulations.

1|Page


2. Commercial Wind energy device — any wind energy device with a nameplate capacity of more
than 100kw of which its primary intent is to generate electrical power to be sold to utility or
power companies.

3. Owner/Developer - shall mean the individual or entity that intends to own and operate the wind
energy system in accordance with this ordinance. This term shall apply to all subsequent
owners of the wind energy system or an individual wind energy device, if ownership is
transferred at any point during the operational lifespan.

4, Rotor Diameter - means the cross sectional dimension of the circle swept by the rotating blades.

5. Total Height - means the vertical distance from ground level to the tip of a wind generator
blade when the tip is at its highest point.

6. Tower - means a monopole, freestanding, or guyed structure that supports a wind generator.

7. Wind energy device - means equipment that converts and then stores or transfers energy from
the wind into usable forms of energy. This equipment includes any base, blade, foundation,
generator, nacelle, rotor, tower, transformer, wire, inverter, batteries, or other components used
in the system. The term wind energy device often refers to and includes wind towers, wind
turbines, wind generators, windmills or wind energy conversion systems.

8. Meteorological Tower (Met Tower) - Any meteorological, measuring, or surveying equipment
erected on or attached to any tower, monopole, or guyed structure to verify the wind and
weather resources found within a certain area. Meteorological towers are also subject to
permitting on both temporary and permanent structures.

9. Small Wind energy device - A wind energy system that is used to generate electricity and has
a nameplate capacity of 100kw or less. Wind energy devices with a generating capacity of
20kw or less may be used for residential or personal use. A wind energy device with a
generating capacity between 20kw and 100kw is considered small wind energy for
commercial/industrial applications. A wind energy device is considered “small” if it supplies
electrical power for on-site use or when excess electrical power generated and not presently
needed for on-site use may be used by a utility company in accordance with Section 199,
chapter 15.11 (5) of the lowa Administrative Code.

10. Decibel (4B) — A unit of measurement for the intensity of sound.

11. Human Occupied Dwelling — A dwelling currently occupied or capable of being occupied for
residential purposes.

Section 16.4. WIND ENERGY REQUIREMENTS

1. Location and Height.
a, Commercial wind energy devices shall be limited to a total height of 600 feet in all districts.

b. Small wind energy devices, meteorological towers and all associated structures shall have
a height limitation of 200 feet and shall not be permitted to extend into approach zones,
clear zones or other restricted air space required for the protection of any airport.

2. Setbacks.

a. Dwelling. Commercial wind energy devices shall be setback no less than 2,900 feet from
any human occupied dwelling. A human occupied dwelling is defined as one that is
currently occupied or capable of being occupied for residential purposes. Any landowner
may waive the minimum required setback from a human occupied dwelling, however, a
minimum setback of 110% of total height is required. The waiver must a written instrument
signed by all owners, included in the application, and recorded at the County Recorder’s
office.

2|Page


b. Property lines. Commercial wind energy devices shall be setback no less than 110% of the
total height from any adjacent property line. An adjoining property owner may waive the
minimum setback. The waiver must be in a written instrument signed by all owners,
included with the application, and recorded at the County Recorder’s office.

c. Public Right of Way and Overhead Utility lines. Commercial wind energy devices shall
be set back a minimum distance equal to 110% of the total height from any public right of
way or overhead utility lines.

d. Small Wind Energy Devices. Any small wind energy device located on a freestanding pole
or other tower structure must maintain a setback distance equal to 110% of the total height
from any public street or road right-of-way, overhead utility lines or adjacent property lines
not under the same ownership unless written permission is granted by the property owner
or entity with jurisdiction over the street, utilities, or adjacent properties.

. Placement or Spacing. Commercial wind energy device spacing will vary depending on
common industry practice and manufacturer specifications. Small wind energy devices
designed for residential or personal use shall be erected on either a freestanding pole or tower.

. Public Lands or Waterways. It is required that the owner/developer of commercial wind energy
devices have a preliminary review with the lowa Department of Natural Resources (DNR)
and the Emmet County Conservation Board early in the planning stages of all wind energy
device projects located in Emmet County. This review will allow the IDNR and/or County
Conservation Board to comment and offer suggestions regarding the siting of wind energy
devices near wildlife habitats. The review will also allow IDNR staff or the County
Conservation Board to identify sensitive environmental concerns near public lands or waters,
and to work with the owner/developer to voluntarily identify alternative siting options that
minimize negative impacts to environmentally sensitive areas.

. Access, All ground mounted electrical and contro] equipment shall be labeled and secured to
prevent unauthorized access.

. Electrical Wires. All electrical wires associated with any wind energy device, other than wires
necessary to the operation of the wind turbine itself shall be located underground. In the
instance of commercial wind energy projects, transmission lines or high-capacity electrical
lines from substations transferring cumulative energy resources from a wind energy project
shall not be required to be placed underground.

. Lighting, No wind energy device shall be artificially lit unless such lighting is required by the
Federal Aviation Administration. It is required that Aircrafl Detection Lighting Systems
(A.D.L.S.) be installed on any and all future wind turbines; this will reduce the impact of
continuous red flashing nighttime lights upon residents, communities, and migratory birds.

. Appearance, Color. and Finish. Any wind energy device shall remain painted or finished the
color or finish that was originally applied by the manufacturer, unless approved in the
conditional use permit.

. Signs. All signs shall be prohibited other than the manufacturer or installer’s identification sign
and appropriate warning signs. Documentation showing any signage is required with the
application. Signs indicating the 911 rural addressing of each commercial wind energy device
or grouping of multiple wind energy devices shall be placed at each wind energy device site
and/or the entry points of access roads as per the Emmet County 911 rural addressing signage
requirements.

3|Page


10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

Code Compliance. Any wind energy device shall comply with all applicable state construction
and electrical codes, and the National Electrical Code.

Utility Notification and Interconnection.
a. Commercial wind energy devices that connect to the electric utility shall comply with all
local, state and federal regulations regarding the connection of energy generation facilities.

b. Small wind energy devices shall not be installed until evidence has been given that the
utility company has authorized interconnection of the small wind device to its electric
distribution or transmission, under an agreement approved by and subject to regulation
adopted by the Iowa Utilities Board. Small wind energy devices not connected to a public
utility system shall be exempt from this requirement.

Sound. Sounds produced by any wind energy device under normal operating conditions as
measured at the closest point of the human occupied dwelling nearest to the wind energy device
shall not produce a sound at a level that would constitute a nuisance. Wind energy device sound
shall not exceed 46dB, however sound levels may be exceeded during short term events out of
anyone’s control, such as utility outages and/or severe windstorms. Sound buffering technology
is to be implemented per industry standards at construction. In the event of a sound complaint
that is consistent and abnormal, the sound measured at the human occupied dwelling that
exceeds the limit of 46dB will be considered nonconforming. Observations of excess noise can
sometimes indicate the need to repair or maintain equipment. See resolution protocol in the
application and/or Section 16.13 of this Article in the event of non-compliance from the
owner/developer. The owner of a human occupied dwelling may waive the sound limits
established above, said waiver must be in a written instrument signed by all owners, included
with the application, and recorded at the County Recorder’s office.

Change of Ownership and Subsequent Ownership. Any commercial wind energy device,
whether singularly or within a group of multiple wind energy devices, shall submit notification
to the zoning administrator or the board of supervisors upon change of ownership of
commercial wind energy devices. The person(s) or other entities that own any wind energy
structures and equipment comprising a wind energy system, regardless of whether they own
the land upon which it is situated, shall be subject to the regulations of this ordinance. These
regulations shall remain applicable to the current owner and all subsequent owners, regardless
of change in ownership. Such regulations shall remain in effect until time of decommissioning
and removal.

Electromagnetic Interference. Any wind energy device shall be designed and constructed so as
not to cause interference to any electronic device. If it is determined a wind energy device is
causing electromagnetic interference, the owner shall take necessary corrective action to
eliminate interference including relocation or removal of the facilities, subject to the approval
of the appropriate county authority. A zoning compliance permit granting a wind energy device
may be revoked if electromagnetic interference from such device becomes evident.

Airports and Airspace.

Estherville Municipal Airport. There shall be no wind energy device located within a circular
area within a 4.6 mile radius of the GPS coordinate of the center of Estherville Municipal
Airport’s primary runway 34-16. Additionally, no wind energy devices shall be installed within
an area extending 2 miles east and 2 miles west of a line down the center of primary runway
34-16 and extends down the center of primary runway 34-16. That same line extends for 8
miles north and eight 8 miles south from the GPS coordinate of the center of Estherville
Municipal Airport runway 34-16.

4|Page


Privately Owned Public Use Airports. No wind energy devices shall be located in airspace in
Emmet County that is within a three and one-half (3.5) mile radius of a public use airport. A
ptivately owned public use airport is in the NE % of Section 36 Jack Creek Township (8y8)
and has FAA coordinates: 43-15-57.48 N and 94-33-45.19 W.

Privately Owned Private Use Airports. No wind energy devices shall be located within one (1)
mile from the width of the runway and two (2) miles from the length all measured off the GPS
coordinate of the center of the runway in airspace of a privately owned private use airport in
Emmet County. Privately owned private use airports are identified below, until the airport is
removed:

Section/Township: GPS Coordinate location:
NW % Section 5 Swan Lake TWP Lat 43.425691 Long -94.658621

NW % Section 1 Armstrong Grove TWP _—— Lat 43.427725 Long -94.458374
W ‘4SE % Section 7 High Lake TWP Lat 43.316169 Long -94.786542
Steve Corderman (private in Kossuth Co.) Lat 43.360210 Long -94.442486

16. Shadow Flicker. A report prepared by a qualified third-party using the most current modeling
software available establishing the amount of potential shadow flicker affecting any Human
Occupied Dwelling will experience, measured from the closest point of the Human Occupied
Dwelling based on the assessment modeling. The report must show the locations and estimated
amount of shadow flicker to be experienced at all human occupied dwellings as a result of the
individual wind energy device in the project. No more than ten (10) hours annually of shadow
flicker shall fall on any human occupied dwelling. Shadow flicker received on a human
occupied dwelling requires that the offending turbines be installed with the optional shadow
flicker system resulting in no more than ten (10) hours annually of shadow flicker on a human
occupied dwelling. The owner of any human occupied dwelling may waive the shadow flicker
limits established above. Said waiver must be in a written instrument signed by all owners and
included with the application and recorded at the County Recorder’s office.

17. Fire Suppression. The latest automated fire suppression system shall be required on each wind
energy device.

Section 16.5. CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT

Commercial wind energy devices, wind energy towers or meteorological towers erected in any
zoning district may be granted as a conditional use and approved by the board of adjustment after
a public hearing. The zoning administrator shall perform an assessment of the issues raised as a
result of erecting wind energy devices and issuing conditional use permits in the zoning district
prior to any public hearing and any action by the board of adjustment. Any conditions or
requirements issued as part of the conditional use permit shall not be more lenient than the stated
wind energy requirements in Section 16.4. Additional conditions or requirements for the
acceptable erection and operation of wind energy devices in any zoning district shall be clearly
stated in the conditional use permit.

Small wind energy devices designed, marketed and sold explicitly for personal or private
residential or business applications, which have a nameplate capacity of 100kw or less shall be
considered a conditional use in all zoning districts. If small wind energy devices are used expressly
for agricultural purposes or to supply power for agricultural purposes, such wind energy devices
are determined to be farm exempt and not subject to these regulations. Small wind energy devices
may be connected to an electrical grid and sold for profit or power credit.

5 Page


Section 16.6. PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND FEES
A conditional use permit shall be required for the installation of any wind energy device, except
for small wind energy devices used expressly for agricultural purposes or to supply power for
agricultural purposes. The conditional use permit application will be accompanied by a detailed
site plan for the wind energy device. A site plan and other such plans and manufacturer’s
specifications shall show the dimensions, arrangements, descriptive data, site layout and other
information essential to an understanding of the use and construction of the proposed wind energy
device. The conditional use permit application shall include an application fee of $2,000 for
commercial wind energy devices and $500 for small wind energy devices plus publication costs,
postage and other associated costs. A site plan shall include the following at a minimum:
e Location of the proposed wind energy device(s)
e Wind energy device specifications, including manufacturer and model, rotor diameter, tower
height, tower type (freestanding or guyed)
e Tower foundation blueprints or drawings and tower blueprint or drawing
e Site layout, including location of property lines, wind turbines, electrical wires, connection
points with electrical grid, and related accessory structures.
The site plan shall be drawn to scale.
Documentation of land ownership or legal control of the property.
FAA permit application, if applicable.
GPS coordinates for wind energy device locations on final or approved site plan
Applicable for commercial wind energy:
© Access points to roads showing construction details typical of all entrances proposed to
be built in the public right-of-way.
© Leaseholder or ownership details of the building site.
© Distances to any human occupied dwellings and the distances to other wind energy
devices or other tower structures within 2,900 feet.

Wind energy devices are subject to a permit fee of $1,000 per commercial wind energy device
erected and $250 per small wind energy device erected, of which must be received and
acknowledged prior to approval of said application. If the wind energy device is used solely for
agricultural purposes then the wind energy device is considered exempt from these zoning
regulations and not subject to the permit fee.

Section 16.7. NOTIFICATION

The owner/developer shall be responsible for obtaining and submitting to Emmet County an
abstractor’s certificate or attorney’s certificate, at the time the application is made, showing the
names and last known addresses of the owners of all property and occupants of residential
dwellings within 5,280 feet (1 mile) of the parameter of the total project development site
containing wind energy device(s). At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing for such
conditional use permit, notice shall be given by ordinary mail to all adjacent property owners and
owners of property and occupants of residential dwellings within 5,280 feet (1 mile) of the
proposed site(s) for which the conditional use is requested. An affidavit of mailing shall be
obtained for each notice mailed. Notice shall include the name and the location of the proposed
project, (list township names and section numbers), a contact person of the proposed project, and
the time and place of the public hearing.

Section 16.8. REVIEW AND APPROVAL

A zoning compliance permit shall not be granted for a commercial wind energy device or
commercial wind energy project unless and until the following procedures have been fulfilled:

6|Page


1. Pre-Application Meeting. Whenever a commercial wind energy project is proposed in Emmet
County, the owner/developer of the wind energy project is required to hold a public
informational meeting on the proposed project. This meeting shall be held a minimum of 45
days and a maximum of 90 days prior to the submission of the conditional use application. The
meeting shall be held in Emmet County at a place adequate in size to serve the anticipated
attendance. The meeting shall be advertised as the “Pre-Application Informational Meeting” in
the official county newspaper(s) and local county shopper once a week for the two weeks prior
to the meeting. No less than 4 days and no more than 27 days prior to the meeting. The ad in
the newspaper shall be a minimum size of 1/8 page. The ad shall include, as a minimum, the
name of the proposed project, a contact person for the proposed project, the location of the
proposed project (list Township names and Section numbers), the time and place of the meeting
and a description of the proposed project. Computer modeling information for sound and
shadow flicker will be available for all human occupied dwellings within the project area at the
time of the meeting. The owner/developer of the proposed wind energy project is responsible
for meeting all of these requirements and shall provide documentation to the county that all of
these requirements have been met. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the pre-application meeting
for such wind energy project, the owner/developer shall give notice by ordinary mail to all
adjacent property owners and owners of property and occupants of residential dwellings within
5,280 feet (1 mile) of the proposed site(s) for which the conditional use is requested.

2. Agency Notice and Review. Prior to applying for a commercial wind energy device, whether
singularly or within a group of multiple wind energy devices, the project owner/developer of
such structure shall be responsible for notifying applicable governmental and community
agencies and allowing each agency 60 days notification to do a preliminary review.
Notification shall be sent certified mail and return receipt. Documentation of notification of
these agencies below is required, and any reports from the agencies shall be provided in their
entirety to the county when the application is submitted. If the agency does not respond, it may
be deemed there was no action taken. It is recommended that any issues be addressed prior to
the public hearing. The following statement shall be included at the beginning of each
notification: “This notification is being sent to comply with Article 16, Wind Energy
Regulations of the Emmet County Zoning Ordinance. If your agency does not respond, it may
be deemed there was no action taken.”

Federal Aviation Administration

USS. Fish and Wildlife

Environmental Protection Agency

Federal Communications Commission

Towa Department of Transportation

Towa Department of Natural Resources

Towa Utilities Board

Office of State Archaeologist

Emmet County Engineer’s Office

Emmet County Conservation Board

Emmet County Board of Health

Emmet County Planning and Zoning

Local EMS Fire and Rescue

Incorporated city within 2 miles of project area

Towa Lakes Community College Aviation Department

Emmet County Emergency Management

Any utility providers

Any Communication providers

Any registered airstrips

7|Page


« Estherville Municipal Airport

3. Within 60 days of receiving the official permit application for a commercial wind energy
device, whether singularly or within a group of multiple wind energy devices, the board of
adjustment shall schedule a public hearing regarding the conditional use permit. Notice shall
be given to the public no less than 4 days and no more than 20 days prior to the public hearing
by publication in the official newspaper(s) of Emmet County as well as publication in a
newspaper within the general vicinity of the proposed project site. Prior to the public hearing,
notice shall be given by ordinary mail to all adjacent property owners and all property owners
within 1 mile (5,280 ft.) of the total development site of the proposed wind energy device(s)
for which the permit is requested.

4. The board of adjustment may prescribe additional appropriate conditions and safeguards in
conformity with this ordinance and other ordinances of the county.

5. Approval of the conditional use permit for a wind energy device shall be valid for a period no
longer than two (2) years from the date of such permit, unless construction has commenced, or
the board of adjustment specifically grants a longer period for the building permit.

6. The approval and issuance of a conditional use permit for the construction or installation of a
commercial wind energy device, whether singularly or within a group of multiple wind energy
devices, under this ordinance shail not relieve any permittee, applicant, or owner from
compliance with all legal requirements, nor relieve the permittee, applicant, or owner of any
liability for damage or loss resulting from the placement, construction, or maintenance of such
wind energy device. Emmet County assumes no liability whatsoever by virtue of the issuance
of a conditional use permit for wind energy devices.

Section 16.9. MITIGATION OF DAMAGES

In the event any damages occur during construction, maintenance, or operation of any wind energy
device the owner/developer shall be fully responsible to mitigate and correct any damages to public
or private infrastructure.

1. Roads, Costs of replacement, maintenance, restoration, and/or damage to county roads, rights-
of-way, or any county infrastructure resulting from modifications, adjustments, heavy or
frequent use during construction and operation of the wind energy devices shall be the
responsibility of the owner/developer of such project. A separate roads agreement that clearly
and specifically lays out the rights and obligations of Emmet County and the owner/developer
with respect to the construction, maintenance, and use of roads in connection with the
development project will be required as a condition of the permit.

2. Drainage System. The owner/developer of the wind energy device shall immediately remedy
any adverse effect on any existing drainage tile caused by construction or repair of such project.
It is required that all underground electrical wires be bored under all drainage district tiles with
a minimum of 5 feet separation distance. No wind energy device may be located within 100
feet of any public county drainage district tile or open drainage ditch. The Emmet County
Board of Supervisors acting as county drainage district trustees shall have the authority to
impose special requirements for each access road that crosses drainage district tile lines and
any crossing of drainage district lines by heavy construction equipment in accordance with
Iowa Code Section 486.186 drainage district damage. The owner/developer shall provide a
map of the path traveled by any heavy construction equipment in any drainage district. This
map shall include GPS locations, accompanied by GPS digital data.

8|Page


Section 16.10. DISCONTINUANCE OR ABANDONMENT

Each application for a commercial wind energy device shall have a decommissioning plan. In the
event of abandonment or discontinued use of one or more devices within the wind energy device,
the owner/developer shall be responsible for dismantling the abandoned or discontinued use of
wind energy devices and returning the property to its original use. Any wind energy device shall
be considered a discontinued use or abandoned after one year without energy production, other
than as a part of a pre-planned program of operation or maintenance. Any plan that arises from
this can only be approved by the board of adjustment. All abandoned or discontinued use wind
energy devices and accessory facilities shall be removed within 180 days of the discontinuation of
use. Each wind energy device project shall have a decommissioning plan outlining the anticipated
means of removing the wind energy device upon the wind energy device becoming a discontinued
use, This plan shall be submitted with the application. The abandonment or discontinued use of
one wind energy device does not require decommissioning of the entire wind energy device
project. If the entire wind energy device project enters the abandoned or discontinued phase, the
owner/developer shall have 180 days to commence and two (2) years to complete the
decommissioning.

The wind energy device owner/developer, including a public utility shall make the following
financial assurances to the county:

1. Performance Agreement and Proof of Financial Surety. At the time of permitting, the applicant,
facility owner, or site operator shall provide a performance agreement and accompanying
financial surety instrument to cover the cost of decommissioning in accordance with the
following:

a. Decommissioning funds shall be an amount equal to the total costs for decommissioning
the site, plus a ten percent (10%) contingency.

b. Decommissioning funds shall be maintained in the form of a performance bond, surety
bond, bank letter of credit, or other form of financial assurance as approved by the Emmet
County Board of Supervisors. Any financial document evidencing the maintenance of the
decommissioning funds shall include provisions for releasing the funds to the county in the
event decommissioning is not completed in a timely manner.

c. Prior to any ground disturbance, grading or construction activity on the site, twenty-five
percent (25%) of total estimated decommissioning costs shall be provided by any of the
means listed above. An additional twenty five percent (25%) shall be provided within five
(5) years and ten (10) years and the date of initial approval, and the remaining twenty five
percent (25%) of the total re-estimated decommissioning costs shall be provided within
fifteen (15) years of the date of initial approval. From that point forward, 100% plus a 10%
contingency of the total estimated decommissioning costs as determined by the most recent
re-estimation shall be maintained in the decommissioning fund until the end of the
functional life of the project.

d. Financial surety shall be maintained for the life of the project.

e. Proof of recertification of financial surety instrument shall be submitted annually to the
county.

f. Every five (5) years, the facility owner or operator shall retain an independent licensed
Iowa engineer approved by the county to re-estimate the cost of decommissioning and
attest that the value of the financial surety instrument is appropriate. This report shall be
filed with the county and shall incorporate any new industry information learned since the
last cost determination.

g. The required amount of the decommissioning fund shall match the re-estimated cost of
decommissioning. Within ninety (90) days of filing the re-estimation report with the

9|Page


county, the facility owner or operator shall cause the fund balance of the financial surety
instrument to be adjusted to ensure that it matches the re-estimated decommissioning cost.

2. Disposal or Recycling Plan. A disposal and/or recycling plan for damaged or obsolete facility
equipment or hazardous waste shall be provided. No storage or burial of inoperable, damaged,
or otherwise obsolete equipment shall be allowed to remain on property within the approved
project site. The current wind energy device operator and all successor operators shall be
responsible for debris cleanup, removal, and property restoration to all participating, and non-
participating property, resulting from natural disaster, severe weather event, mechanical
failure, fire or act of vandalism to any property and equipment. A debris cleanup and property
restoration effort shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days and shall not be
considered complete until receiving board of supervisors’ approval.

3. No storage or burial of inoperable, damaged, or otherwise obsolete equipment shall be allowed
in Emmet County.

4. When decommissioning wind tower, all components of tower shall be removed by crane to
prevent soil contamination.

Section 16.11. LIABILITY INSURANCE

The owner/developer of a wind energy project shall maintain a current and general liability policy
covering bodily injury and property damage with limits of at least ten (10) million dollars per
occurrence. The owner/developer shall also certify that the insurance does not contain an exclusion
for environmental pollution or force majeure. If so, the owner/developer shall provide an
alternative policy that covers environmental pollution and force majeure. The owner/developer of
the wind energy project shall maintain this policy for the lifetime of the wind energy project and
submit a copy of the same to the zoning administrator and board of supervisors at each renewal.
Emmet County and its officials shall be named as additional insureds. The above policies must
have a three percent (3%) annual inflation adjustment.

Section 16.12 SAFETY

Issuance of a wind energy device permit is strictly conditioned on the applicant executing the

following:

1. A written emergency response plan provided by applicant and approved by the board of
supervisors. Said plan shall contain response procedures to be followed in the event of a fire,
collapse, personal injury, or other emergency at a project. The plan shell contain 24-hour
emergency contact information for the project. The written emergency response plan must be
reviewed and approved by the fire chief{s) of the district where the project is located and by
the Emmet County Emergency Management Director prior to submission to the zoning
administrator.

2. All signs shall be prohibited other than the manufacturer or installer’s identification sign,
appropriate warning signs and 24-hour emergency contact information. Documentation
showing any signage is required with the application. Signs indicating the 911 rural addressing
of each commercial wind energy device or grouping of multiple wind energy devices shall be
placed at each wind energy device site and/or the entry points of access roads as per the Emmet
County 911 rural addressing signage requirements.

3. An unredacted Health & Safety Instructions Manual for make, model, and type of turbines in
the project from the manufacturer(s) must be presented to the county to have on file and must
be made available to the public at time of application. No other generalized statement,
document, or manual is acceptable. This Health & Safety Instructions Manual must be specific

10|Page


to the make, model, and type of turbine permitted and contain the evacuation and danger zone
measurement for the specific turbine permitting. The owner/developer must comply with all
requirements of turbine safety therein.

Section 16.13. RESOLUTION PROTOCOL

Application shall include a complaint resolution protocol. The owner/developer shall investigate
all complaints consistent with the complaint resolution protocol. At a minimum, the complaint
resolution protocol will include the requirement for a wind energy device representative to follow
up with any local resident within 5 business days that submits a complaint to fully understand the
complaint. All complaints shail be logged along with the results of the investigation and measures
taken to resolve the complaint and provided to the board of supervisors. If such complaint is not
resolved with the owner/developer, then the affected property owner can then follow the procedure
below:

1. Complaints shail be submitted to the board of supervisors in writing from the affected property
owner or written designee; including name, address, contact information and specific
complaint. The written complaint shall include the specific section of the ordinance which is
believed to be violated. The County Auditor shall cause the complaint to be added to the agenda
of the next Emmet County Board of Supervisors meeting in accordance with the procedure for
setting the agenda.

2. Complaints received by the county and the date of the board of supervisors meeting where
complaints may be considered shall be communicated to the owner/developer at least 5 days
prior. The notice shall state that the Emmet County Board of Supervisors and the County
Attorney may determine that the wind energy device is in violation of its permit and is therefore
a nuisance and may be ordered out of service until the owner/developer can demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of this ordinance.

Section 16.14. DOCUMENTATION
Documentation is required by the owner/developer at the time of application for all items of this
Article XVI.

Section 16.15 PENALTY

It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct, install, or operate a wind
energy device that is not in compliance with this ordinance or with any special conditions
contained in the conditional use permit. Wind energy devices installed prior to the adoption of this
ordinance are exempt. The zoning administrator or the board of supervisors may enter any property
for which a permit has been issued under this ordinance to conduct an inspection to determine
whether the conditions stated in the permit have been met. Any person who fails to comply with
any provision of this ordinance or an approved conditional use permit for any wind energy device
shall be deemed a county infraction and punishable under the provisions of Article XXII of the
Emmet County Zoning Ordinance.

INTERPRETATION OF REGULATIONS

In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this ordinance, and any amendments and
permits pursuant thereto, shall be held to be minimum requirements. Where this ordinance imposes
a greater restriction than is imposed or required by other provisions of law, other rules, regulations,
or ordinances, the provisions of this ordinance shall govern. This ordinance is not intended to
abrogate or annul any easement, covenant, or other private agreement provided that where any

“ll|Page


provision of this ordinance is more restrictive or imposes a higher standard or requirement than
such easement, covenant or other private agreement, the provision of this
ordinance shall govern.

REPEAL AND SAVINGS CLAUSE

Effective on the effective date of this ordinance, all ordinances or parts of ordinances previously
adopted by Emmet County which conflict with the provisions of this ordinance, or amendments
thereto, are hereby repealed. The repeal of said ordinance shall not have the effect to release or
relinquish any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under said ordinance or any part thereof, and
such ordinance and all parts thereof shall be treated as remaining in force for the purpose of
instituting or sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of such penalty,
forfeiture, or liability.

VALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY CLAUSE

Should any section, provision or any part of this ordinance, or amendments thereto, be declared by
a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional, such ruling shall not affect the
validity of the ordinance as a whole or provision or part thereof not specifically included in said
ruling.

EFFECTIVE DATE

This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption and publication as
required by law and as provided for in the Code of Iowa, or amendments thereto.

Passed and approved this __/ gh day of Ma r ch , 2026.

First Reading: 3:J0-202@ _ Xn, Loran

Second Reading-3-/ 7. Chairman, Emmet County Board of Supervisors
Third Reading:
Adopted: _<-* :
Attest:
et County Auditor
I certify that the foregoing ordinance was published as Ordinance No. on the day
of - 2026.

(signed)

12|Page
