                                  Board of Supervisors Minutes
                                          July 27, 2026

The Tama County Board of Supervisors met at 8:30 a.m. July 27, 2026. Present: 1st District
Supervisor, Curt Hilmer; 2nd District Supervisor, David Turner; 4th District Supervisor, Mark
Doland and 5th District Supervisor, Curt Kupka. Also, Tama County Auditor, Karen Rohrs, and
members of the public. 3rd District Supervisor, Heather Knebel, joined by phone.

The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Kupka to approve the agenda. Discussion: None. All voted aye.
Motion carried.

Public Comments: Public comments were heard from Karen Murty. Public comment time closed at
8:31 am.

Motion by Hilmer, seconded by Turner to approve the minutes of the July 20th regular meeting.
Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Motion by Hilmer, seconded by Turner to approve the minutes of the July 22nd work session
meeting that was held with Tama County Public Health. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion
carried.

Supervisor Kupka gave a roads project report.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Kupka to authorize the auditor to mail letters to the current Tama
County land renters terminating their contracts to allow for new bids on the land. The current leases
are for a 1-year term. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Motion by Kupka, seconded by Hilmer to approve the property tax levy rates as prepared by the
Auditor’s Office and certified by the State of Iowa for Fiscal Year 2027 for publication. (A copy of
the levy rate table is available upon request at the Auditor’s office) Discussion: None. All voted
aye. Motion carried.

Motion by Hilmer, seconded by Kupka to approve a temporary liquor license for the annual Double
D Rodeo. This is for their annual Double D Rodeo to be held on August 7th and 8th. Discussion:
None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Hilmer to approve the Treasurer’s Semi-Annual Report.
Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Kupka to approve health claims for payment as presented in the
amount of $5,152.00. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.
Motion by Turner, seconded by Knebel to approve the regular claims for payment as presented in
the amount of $906,451.02. Discussion: The higher amount is due to the Heartland Insurance
payment. All voted aye. Motion carried.

New Business: Supervisor Turner reported that he had presented the IT plan at the department head
meeting last week. He also attended the Central Iowa Juvenile Detention Center meeting last week
where the resolution was approved by all member counties. Supervisor Hilmer discussed the joint
Board of Health meeting last week and reported that it went well.

Public Comments: There were no public comments. Public comment time closed at 8:46 am.

The Board took a brief recess at 8:47 am. The Board came out of recess at 8:50 am.

The Board went into exempt session at 8:50 am for discussion regarding the secondary road’s union
contract. The Board came out of exempt session at 9:26 am.

Supervisor Turner reported to the Board that he had spoken with Megan from Greenbelt Home Care
last week.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Kupka to adjourn the meeting. All voted aye. Motion carried.
Vice-Chair Doland adjourned the meeting at 9:30 am.
These minutes are intended to provide a summary of the discussions and decisions made during the Board of
Supervisor meeting. For the most accurate and comprehensive record, please refer to the audio recording of the
meeting that can be provided upon request at the auditor’s office.
