RESOLUTION #2025-05

Temporary Moratorium on the Construction of USSES and BESS in the
Unincorporated Areas Of Emmet County, lowa

Emmet County Board of Supervisors
Resolution No. 2025-05

Resolution to Establish a Temporary Moratorium on the Construction of Utility Scale Solar Energy
Systems (USSES) and Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) in the Unincorporated Areas of Emmet
County Iowa; and

WHEREAS the Board of Supervisors, hereafter referred to as “Board”, has concerns that in the future persons
may desire to construct Utility Scale Solar Energy Systems (USSES), commonly referred to as solar farms,
and/or Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) in the unincorporated areas of Emmet County, Jowa; and

WHEREAS the Board believes that before any such facilities are constructed in Emmet County, ordinances
should be put in place to ensure that the Board and Zoning Administrator are aware of these projects in Emmet
County and that the construction, operation, and deconstruction of these facilities would be subject to
reasonable regulations that would ensure that said facilities are constructed and operated in a safe manner, the
tights of persons or property within reasonable distance of said facilities are appropriately protected, and the
conditions of County roads are protected; and

WHEREAS the Board desires to have said temporary moratoriums in place until such time as ordinances can be
prepared and passed to provide appropriate regulation of said facilities.

BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED by the Emmet County Board of Supervisors that:

1. The board does hereby establish and impose a temporary moratorium on the construction of a Utility Scale
Solar Energy System (USSES), commonly referred to as solar farms, in the unincorporated areas of Emmet
County. No USSES facilities or appurtenances to said facilities shall be constructed in the unincorporated areas
of Emmet County. This shall include the renovation of any existing structures to be used as said facility. This
moratorium will remain in place until September 30, 2025, at 11:59 p.m. unless extended by the Board prior to

the expiration.

2. The Board does hereby establish and impose a temporary moratorium on the construction of a Battery
Energy Storage Systems (BESS) in the unincorporated areas of Emmet County. No BESS facilities or
appurtenances to said facilities shall be constructed in the unincorporated areas of Emmet County. This shall
include the renovation of any existing structures to be used as said facility. This moratorium will remain in
place until September 30, 2025, at 11:59 p.m. unless extended by the Board prior to the expiration.

3. The Emmet County Board of Supervisors reserves the right to end the moratorium on either USSES or BESS
prior to the approved term of the moratorium upon completion of the amendments to the Emmet County Zoning
Ordinance and satisfactory resolution of the issues as determined by the Emmet County Board of Supervisors.

4. This resolution as to both temporary moratoriums shall become effective upon passage.

95
he


Dated this 28 day of January, 2025

Dy 184)

Lisa Hansen, Emmet County Board of Supervisors Chair

alltel

Heidi iM: Goebel, Emmet County Auditor

.

Record of votes- aye or nay or absent:
Hansen-(a)p or nay

Glasnapp-@y2 or nay

Schumacher- aye-ortay alse
Quastad- YP or nay

Glasnapp- ¢¥por nay

36°99
ay.
