                                                                                   July 21, 2026

The Shelby County Board of Supervisors met in regular session at 9:00 A.M. in the Supervisors
Chamber in the Courthouse with the following members present: Charles Parkhurst, Mike
Kolbe, Bryce Schaben, and Taryn Knapp, Clerk.

Chairman, Charles Parkhurst, asked that any conflict of interest be stated concerning any item
on the agenda. None was stated

It was moved by Schaben, seconded by Kolbe, to approve the agenda. Motion carried
unanimously.

It was moved by Kolbe, seconded by Schaben to approve the minutes of July 17th, 2026. Motion
carried unanimously.

Kolbe made a motion to approve the recently processed claims; Schaben seconded the motion.
Motion carried unanimously.

Luke Wolken, Environmental Health Director, presented a 5-year renewal 28E Agreement for
consideration. Schaben made a motion and Kolbe seconded the motion to approve the 28E
Agreement with Iowa Department of Natural Resources and Shelby County.

Schaben made a motion to approve a ROW permit for FMCTC at the intersection of 1800th and
M47, Kolbe seconded the motion. Motion carried unanimously.

Engineer, Chris Fredericksen, then gave a department update on shoulder rock and bridge
replacements. Fredericksen also thanked everyone involved in the success of Ragbrai going
through the County over the weekend.

Tony Buman, Planning and Zoning, presented a list of Board of Adjustment members for re-
approval from a previous meeting. Kolbe made a motion and Schaben seconded the motion to
approve the following members and term expirations: Betty Larson 12/31/2027, Denny Gross
12/31/2028, Robbie Bissen 12/31/2029, Tony Carter 12/31/2030, Gervas Mgonja 12/31/2031.

There were no updates or changes needed to the Planning and Zoning Board members.

EMA Coordinator, Alex Londo, gave a 911 project update and said with collaboration between
EMA and the Sheriff’s Office they have been working to replace all faded 911 address markers.
Londo will be driving around replacing stickers on faded signs. If a sign/post needs replaced,
you can fill out a request form on the county website.

Supervisor Kolbe attended a meeting on the Nishnabotna River access and stated signs will be
going up designating the river as an official water trail. Signs will have information which will
include the time it will take from point to point.

Geralyn Greer presented the Recorder’s Quarterly Report for approval. Kolbe made a motion
to approve, and Schaben seconded the motion to approve the report. Motion carried
unanimously.

Greer also updated the Supervisors on recent legislative changes affecting the Recorder’s
Office.

Discussion was had regarding the Petition of Voluntary Severance of property located within
the City limits of Harlan. No action was needed.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:30 A.M.


Charles Parkhurst, Chairman
ATTEST:

Taryn Knapp
Clerk to the Board of Supervisors
