                                                                             August 18, 2026

The Shelby County Board of Supervisors met in regular session at 9:00 A.M. in the Supervisors
Chamber in the Courthouse with the following members present: Charles Parkhurst, Mike
Kolbe, Bryce Schaben, and Taryn Knapp, Clerk.

Chairman, Charles Parkhurst, asked that any conflict of interest be stated concerning any item
on the agenda. None was stated

It was moved by Schaben, seconded by Kolbe, to approve the agenda. Motion carried
unanimously.

It was moved by Kolbe, seconded by Schaben to approve the minutes of August 4th, 2026.
Motion carried unanimously.

Schaben made a motion to approve the recently processed claims; Kolbe seconded the motion.
Motion carried unanimously.

Schaben made a motion to approve a ROW permit for Regional Water for new service lines to
properties, Kolbe seconded the motion. Motion carried unanimously.

Engineer Chris Fredericksen, then presented a Resolution 2026-27 Roadway Entrance
Application Modification . Kolbe made a motion and Schaben seconded the motion to approve
the following resolution:
                              RESOLUTION NO. 2026-27
              ROADWAY ENTRANCE APPLICATION MODIFICATION

      WHEREAS Shelby County sets out the procedure if a landowner wishes to install an
entrance from their property to a county roadway.

      WHEREAS the nature of entrance application changes with time and developments in
procedures and applications.

      WHEREAS, the Shelby County Engineer has recognized the need to amend and change
the wording of the Shelby County Entrance application.

        WHEREAS, the Shelby County Engineer has duly created procedure to extend existing
roadway entrances by amending wording in the roadway entrance application to safely and
efficiently modify existing entrances or create new entrances.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF
SHELBY COUNTY that the Board of Supervisors hereby accepts the changes to the Shelby
County Entrance application. Schaben seconded the motion, the motion passed with ayes by
Parkhurst, Schaben and Kolbe. No nays were cast. The application reads:
Realizing the following conditions and circumstances, and wanting to be as efficient in the use
of road funds as possible, the Board of Supervisors has adopted the following policy:
  1. The County Engineer is required to issue a permit for each new or widened access to
  the Secondary Road System. According to Section 319.14 of the Iowa Code, “A person
  shall not excavate, fill, or make a physical change within the right-of-way of a public road
  or highway without permission from the highway having jurisdiction of the public road
  or highway.
  2. The County Engineer will require a no-cost permit for each new or widened entrance
  to the Secondary Road system. Location of entrance will be at the owner’s request if sight
  distance of 400’ for rock and earth roadways, 570’ for paved roadways, and other factors
  are approved by the Engineer.
  3. Slope from the edge of entrance to the ditch flowline will be as follows:
  Paved Road/Dry Fill = 8:1; Paved Road (with culvert) = 6:1; Gravel Road = 4:1
  4. Approximately midway between the Right-of-Way line and the edge of the road, the
  elevation of the entrance shall be at least six (6) inches lower than that of the edge of the
  roadway.
  5. Shelby County shall designate minimum length, diameter, and type of culvert pipe to
  achieve efficient and adequate width of entrance. Culverts shall be steel riveted annular
  culverts, or HDPE dual walled culverts that meet Iowa DOT Specifications for entrance
  culverts. All new entrance culverts shall be sized by a minimum of 24 inches in diameter,
  unless natural site topography prohibits installation as determined by Shelby County. No
  new entrance culvert shall be less than 18 inches in diameter or 30 feet in length. Entrance
  culverts larger than 48” in diameter shall be steel, riveted annular culverts.
  6. All costs of all new/permitted installations will be borne by the owner. The County
  will maintain stockpiles of new pipe for purchase. When an entrance culvert has
  deteriorated, or is no longer functioning as originally designed, the Shelby County
  Engineer or their representative will investigate to determine if a new culvert is required.
  Shelby County will provide a replacement entrance culvert at no cost but will not assume
  maintenance of entrances after installation. The replacement pipe will be of length equal
  to the existing entrance pipe, and the removed pipe shall be returned to Shelby County.
  7. Culvert pipes shall be approved by County Engineer or their representative. The new
  culvert pipe shall meet County and Iowa Department of Transportation standards for
  entrance pipes.
  8. Shelby County maintenance personnel are allowed to maintain access to prevent water
  from damaging the roadway surface.
  9. Unauthorized installation of entrances within the public right-of-way will be subject
  to removal without notice.
  10. The priority of equipment used in entrance placement is cleaning out the ends of
  drainage structures, replacing damaged or separated road culverts, washouts, and bridges.
  Therefore, entrance work is a low-priority scheduled item. The owner may have the
  required entrance maintenance done by others, with all work subject to approval by Shelby
  County personnel.
  11. Extension of existing entrances will only be allowed when the ends of the existing
  culvert are suitable for attachment as well as the original pipe being structurally sound.
  Also, entrances shall meet the criteria of this policy following modifications.
  12. The owner of each entrance shall be responsible for surfacing the entrance at their cost,
  as the county will only provide surfacing to house drives when grading, paving, or
  repairing.
  13. All necessary and proper barricades, flares, etc., as per the Manual on Uniform Traffic
  Control Devices, shall be furnished and maintained by the applicant. Maximum safety
  precautions shall be maintained to protect workers, property owners, and the traveling
  public from accidents due to the operations of the applicant.
  14. Shelby County shall be indemnified and saved harmless from any damage resulting
  from the applicant’s operations.
  15. The installer shall submit to the Shelby County Engineer a certificate of liability and
  property insurance, with the minimum coverage as follows: General Liability Insurance –
  Bodily Injury and Property Damage Combined $500,000 Each Occurrence / $1,000,000
  Aggregate
  Automobile Liability - &500,000 Combined Single Limits
     Excess Liability – Each Occurrence / $1,000,000 Aggregate
     Workers Comp. & Employers Liability:                 Part A – Statutory.      Part B -
  $500,000/$500,000/$500,000
  16. It is the present policy of Shelby County to maintain those driveways specified by the
  School Superintendents as school bus turnarounds. This may include granular surfacing
  from should of the roadway to the right-of-way line.

AYES: Parkhurst, Kolbe, Schaben NAYS: None Motion carried unanimously.

Schaben made a motion and Kolbe seconded the motion to approve changes to the Safety
Policy presented by Jake Holloway, Safety Director. Motion carried unanimously.

Kolbe made a motion and Schaben seconded the motion to approve the Class “F” Retail
Alcohol License Renewal for Corley Community Club. Motion carried unanimously.

There were no department head reports given.

Supervisors and various department heads will attend ISAC for the annual conference.

Kolbe made a motion to approve the amended Shelby County Credit Card Policy and Schaben
seconded the motion. Motion carried unanimously.

Schaben made a motion to approve the amended Expense Reimbursement Policy and Kolbe
seconded the motion. Motion carried unanimously.

Schaben made a motion to approve the amended Shelby County Employee Drug & Alcohol
Policy and Kolbe seconded the motion. Motion carried unanimously.
Schaben made a motion and Kolbe seconded the motion to direct the Budget Director to
advertise for a Public Hearing on the proposed FY27 Budget Amendment #1 to be held at 9:05
a.m. on September 15th, 2026, in the Supervisors Chambers at 612 Court Street, Harlan, Iowa.
Motion carried unanimously.

No action was taken on the update to the County Handbook.

The meeting was adjourned at 9:17 A.M.




                                                      Charles Parkhurst, Chairman
ATTEST:




Taryn Knapp
Clerk to the Board of Supervisors
