TIPTON, IOWA June 30, 2026

The Cedar County Board of Supervisors met in regular session at 8:30 a.m. June 30, 2026 with
the following members present: Bixler, Barnhart, Gaul(via phone), Kaufmann, and Chairperson
Bell. Minutes reported by Deputy Auditor Hamdorf. Members of the public were also present.

The Board viewed correspondence from various agencies.

The Board acknowledged receipt of the following correspondence from:
City of Tipton notice of unknown service line material.

Manure Management Annual Updates submitted by:
Cedar Hill Farm #67291 for a site at 298 190" Street, Lisbon.

It was noted the following Handwritten Disbursement was issued on 6/26/2026 to the Cedar
County Treasurer for Benefits, Inc. for an electronic deposit: #446238 for $5,428.15-self funded
medical claims.

Moved by Sup. Bixler seconded by Sup. Kaufmann to approve the agenda.
Ayes: All

Chairperson Bell addressed the public for comments. Dave Siebels inquired about a creek bed
falling on Jackson Avenue & 125" Street. The Board will have the County Engineer look into
this. Auditor Welch informed the Board due to HF2490 she will be purchasing an outdoor
bulletin board to post the agendas.

Moved by Sup. Barnhart seconded by Sup. Kaufmann to approve the Board Minutes of June 23,
2026.
Ayes: All

Moved by Sup. seconded by Sup. to approve Payroll Disbursements #205692-205856 for the
period ending 6/20/26 and to be paid on 6/26/26. This includes comp payout.
Ayes: All

Moved by Sup. Barnhart seconded by Sup. Kaufmann to approve Claim Disbursements #446149
- #446237 paid on 6/25/2026.
Ayes: All

The Board reported on Outreach/Committee Meetings they attended.

Moved by Sup. Kaufmann seconded by Sup. Bixler to appoint Jessica Marolf to the Cedar
County Eminent Domain Commission.
Ayes: All

Arnold Lehrman has concerns with standing water due to tiling and buildings being built.
Lehrman would like to see a large tile through this area. LaRue mentioned several septic
systems in that area as well. Consensus of the Board was to have Lehrman and Siebels take
these issues to the City of Stanwood then have the City meet with the Board.

Conservation Director Petersen provided the Board with two updated job descriptions for Park
Technician that he worked on with HR Attorney Galloway. The Conservation Board motioned
to pass the updated job descriptions. Petersen also asked the Board if they would be willing to
transfer any funds from the General Basic to Conservation Land Acquisition Trust and Capitol
Improvement Fund. Discussion was held on past years but with the budget shortfall over the
past few years consensus was not to do a transfer.

Moved by Sup. Kaufmann seconded by Sup. Bixler to deny a transfer from the General Basic to
Conservation Land Acquisition Trust and Capitol Improvement Fund due to current budget cuts
and nothing planned in the upcoming fiscal year.

Ayes: All


Sup. Gaul left the Board meeting.

Moved by Sup. Bixler seconded by Sup. Kaufmann to approve the lowa Department of
Transportation Federal-aid Agreement for a Competitive Highway Bridge Program (CHBP)
Project (BRS-CHBP-C016(122)--GB-16).

Ayes: All

Absent: Gaul

Moved by Sup. seconded by Sup. to approve Isaac Brennan to return to a MWII position with a
wage of $31.44 effective 6/30/2026.

Ayes: All

Absent: Gaul

Engineer Fangmann met with the Board to discuss a Speed Limit Resolution on County Paved
Secondary Roads. Fangmann explained that the speed limit that is posted is what will be
enforced.

Moved by Sup. Kaufmann seconded by Sup. Barnhart to approve and authorize Chairperson Bell
to sign the Temporary 55 MPH Speed Limit on County Paved Secondary Roads Resolution.

SPEED LIMIT RESOLUTION
TEMPORARY 55 MPH SPEED LIMIT ON COUNTY PAVED SECONDARY ROADS
RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors of Cedar County is empowered under the authority of
Sections 321.255 and 321.285, subsection 4, of the Code of Iowa to determine upon the basis of
an engineering and traffic investigation conducted by the County Engineer that the speed limit of
any secondary road is greater than is reasonable and proper under the conditions existing, and may
determine and declare a reasonable and proper speed limit; and

WHEREAS, Senate File 378 amended Section 321.285 of the Code of Iowa effective July 1, 2026,
changing the statutory speed limit on primary roads from fifty-five (55) miles per hour to sixty
(60) miles per hour unless otherwise provided; and

WHEREAS, Cedar County maintains an extensive paved secondary road system consisting of
approximately 139 miles of paved roadway and numerous roadway segments with varying
geometric characteristics, access densities, traffic volumes, roadside development, and other
conditions affecting the reasonable and proper speed of travel; and

WHEREAS, the County Engineer has determined that additional engineering and _ traffic
investigations are necessary to evaluate the reasonable and proper speed limit for the County's
paved secondary roads under the revised statutory provisions; and

WHEREAS, the County Engineer recommends maintaining the existing posted speed limit of
fifty-five (55) miles per hour and lower where designated on paved secondary roads until such
investigations can be completed and individual roadway segments reviewed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cedar County Board of Supervisors that:

1. A speed limit of fifty-five (55) miles per hour is hereby established on all paved Cedar
County secondary roads currently posted at fifty-five (55) miles per hour, unless otherwise
established by separate resolution of the Board of Supervisors.

2. This resolution is intended as an interim measure to maintain existing speed limits while
engineering and traffic investigations are conducted and roadway segments are reviewed
by the County Engineer.

3. The County Engineer is directed to continue evaluating paved secondary roads and to
provide recommendations to the Board of Supervisors regarding any future speed limit
modifications deemed reasonable and proper.

4. The speed limits established herein shall be effective upon passage of this resolution and
the continued presence of appropriate regulatory signs giving notice of the speed limit.


Passed and approved this 30" day of June, 2026, by the Cedar County Board of Supervisors.
Ayes: All
Absent: Gaul

The Board informed Engineer Fangmann about the complaint on Jackson Avenue and 125" Street.
Fangmann will assess the complaint and report back next week.

Moved by Sup. Barnhart seconded by Sup. Bixler to adjourn at 10:04 a.m., to July 7, 2026.
Ayes: All
Absent: Gaul

Nicki Welch, Auditor Joh Bell, hairperson
