Page 82                                SUPERVISOR’S MINUTE BOOK 2025
August 12th, 2025
The meeting of the Board of Supervisors was called to order at 9:05 am by Chairman Heath Hansen. Present at the
meeting were Heath Hansen, Don Mosinski, Kent Grabill, Chassity Musfeldt, Miranda Bills, Deb Campbell, Chris
Swensen, Todd Johnson, Brandon Hardy, John Hansen, Tyler Thygesen, and Mitch Rydl.
          Motion- Grabill Second- Mosinski to approve the agenda. Vote-all in favor. The sales tax and credit card
policies were reviewed. Motion- Mosinski Second- Grabill to approve the updates to the policies. Vote-all in favor.
Treasurer Campbell met with the Supervisors to discuss four parcels that have been acquired by the City of Exira
and would like approval for tax abatements. Motion- Mosinski Second-Grabill to approve the tax abatements on
the following parcels all owned by the City of Exira: 05-11-04-016-130, 05-11-03-012-210, 05-11-04-016-066, and
05-11-04-016-067. Vote-all in favor. Motion- Grabill Second- Mosinski to approve the revised policies 15 (Claims
Approval) and 16 (Petty Cash). Vote-all in favor.
          The August Department Head meeting was held at 9:30 am. Chairman Hansen discussed the recent policy
revisions and said the Supervisors may be reaching out to different departments if the policy pertains to them.
State Auditors will be working onsite this week for the FY25 Audit. There will be a safety meeting at 2:00 pm today
in the Board room. Recorder Bills said the County was close to 100% participation for the Wellness exams. The
Public Hearing for the Temporary Moratorium of battery/energy storage within Audubon County was opened at
10:20 am.
          Engineer Rydl gave recent Secondary Roads construction and maintenance updates. A recent topic has
been the dead trees that could or have potentially fallen into the right-of-way but were located on privately owned
land. The question would be whether the landowner or the County was responsible for this. The Iowa Code
sections were referenced. Rydl said on September 25th, there will be a John Deere factory tour if anyone is
interested in going. This is where the three new motor graders are being assembled. Motion- Mosinski Second-
Grabill to approve the Casey Mutual Telephone Company utility permit located along 270th St, T79N, R34W in
Greeley Township. Vote-all in favor. Motion- Grabill Second- Mosinski to approve the water line utility permit
application for Tony Smith located at 2764 Falcon Ave, Sections 35 & 36 in T79N, R36W in Sharon Township. Vote-
all in favor. The plans were presented and reviewed for the upcoming Mockingbird HMA paving project (Exira).
Motion- Grabill Second- Mosinski to approve the plans/bid documents for the Mockingbird HMA paving project.
Vote-all in favor. The Brayton project is now completed. Rydl would like to have a potential meeting in September
with the City of Brayton to discuss the payment to the County. Crews have been busy with bridge maintenance and
ditch cleaning.
          Motion- Mosinski Second- Grabill to approve the ISAC Resolution 2025-44 designating voting
representatives as follows. Vote-all in favor.
                                               Resolution 2025-44
                   To Designate Voting Representatives for the Iowa State Association of Counties
WHEREAS, Audubon County (“County”) is a member of the Iowa State Association of Counties; and
WHEREAS, the ISAC Articles of Incorporation were updated in November 2024 to require the County to designate,
through resolution by its Board of Supervisors, its County Voting Representatives; and
WHEREAS, only the designated County Voting Representatives have the power to vote on behalf of the County at
ISAC; and
WHEREAS, the County Voting Representatives must be either elected county officials or the principal officer for
each county department represented by an Affiliated Association of ISAC.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Audubon County Board of Supervisors, effective immediately, hereby
designates the following persons as County Voting Representatives for ISAC:
Iowa State Association of County Supervisors: Donald Mosinski, Heath Hansen, Kent Grabill
Iowa State Sheriffs’ and Deputies’ Association: Todd Johnson
Iowa County Attorneys Association, Inc.: Christopher Swensen
Iowa State Association of County Auditors: Lisa Frederiksen
Iowa State County Treasurers Association: Debbie Campbell
Iowa County Recorders Association, Inc.: Miranda Bills
Iowa County Engineers Association: Mitch Rydl


Page 83
Iowa State Association of Assessors: Sheri Karns
Iowa Community Services Association: Breanna Mormon
Iowa Emergency Management Association: Tyler Thygesen
County Conservation Directors Association of Iowa: Bruce Haag
Iowa Environmental Health Association, Inc.: Jotham Arber
Iowa Counties Public Health Association: Jotham Arber
County Zoning Officials of Iowa: Tiffany Henkle
Iowa Counties Information Technology Organization: Ben Linde
Iowa Association of County Commissioners and Veterans Service Officers, Inc.: William Baylor
The County shall forward a copy of this Resolution with the names of the designated County Voting
Representatives to support@iowacounties.org.
Approved by the Audubon County Board of Supervisors on 8-12-25.
/s/ Heath Hansen                     /s/Chassity Musfeldt
Board Chair                                  Attest: Auditor Clerk
            Attorney Swensen presented the resolution placing a temporary moratorium on battery/energy storage
   being located within Audubon County. The Public Hearing was closed at 11:10 am. No comments were received
 from the public. Chairman Hansen read the resolution, and a role call vote was done. Ayes: Hansen, Mosinski, and
                                                 Grabill. Nays: None.

                                                   Resolution 2025-46
    A resolution authorizing a temporary moratorium on utility-scale Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS), in
                                                 Audubon County, Iowa
WHEREAS, Iowa Code Section 331.302 requires a county to compile ordinances every 5 years, and the County
currently does not have a speciﬁc ordinance pertaining to utility-scale Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS); and
WHEREAS, the County has an interest in protecting resident’s life, health, and safety as well as safeguarding the
County’s infrastructure, natural resources and property rights through adequate zoning standards;
WHEREAS, the Audubon Board of Supervisors and the Audubon Planning & Zoning Commission require time to
gather information and coordinate with agencies for the purpose of reviewing, updating or creating ordinances,
policies, and procedures relative to utility-scale Battery Energy Storage Systems development;
WHEREAS, a public hearing on and reading of a resolution imposing a temporary moratorium on utility-scale
battery energy storage systems was held at 10:00 a.m., on August 12, 2025, in the Audubon County Board of
Supervisors Meeting Room;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED; by the Board of Supervisors of Audubon County, Iowa, that Audubon County
now imposes a temporary moratorium, eﬀective immediately and until the January 1, 2026; or until passage of an
Utility-Scale Battery Energy Storage Systems Development ordinance, on accepting or processing any applications
for the construction of utility-scale Battery Energy Storage Systems.
/s/Heath Hansen_________________________
Chair, Board of Supervisors
/s/Chassity Musfeldt_________________________
Attest, Auditor Clerk
Votes Taken:
Ayes – Hansen, Mosinski & Grabill
Nays – None
Absent – None

         Motion- Mosinski Second- Grabill to approve Resolution 2025-45 for the Planning & Zoning Director
position and pay rate as follows. Vote-all in favor.


Page 83                                   RESOLUTION 2025-45
  Be it hereby resolved by the Audubon County Board of Supervisors, that Tiﬀany Henkle be hired as the Planning
 and Zoning Director for Audubon County eﬀective August 1st, 2025. This position will follow the County Handbook.
                         The compensation will be an annual rate of $5,400, paid biweekly.
  /s/Heath Hansen                               Attest:/s/Chassity Musfeldt               ___
Chairman, Board of Supervisors                  Audubon County Auditor Clerk

 Motion- Grabill Second-Hansen to accept/file the Clerk of Court’s fees collected for July 2025. Vote-all in favor.
Motion- Grabill Second- Hansen to approve claims as submitted by various departments to be paid in the amount
of $75,095.54 and published in a separate publication at the end of the month. Vote-all in favor. Motion- Grabill
Second- Hansen to approve the meeting minutes from 8-5-25. Vote-all in favor. Motion- Grabill Second- Hansen to
accept/file the Supervisor’s Month End Reports from July 2025.Vote-all in favor. Motion- Grabill Second- Hansen to
accept/file the Auditor’s Month End reports for the month of July 2025. Vote-all in favor. The meeting was
adjourned at 11:36 am.

/s/Heath Hansen                                         /s/Chassity Musfeldt
                                                Attest:                             ___
Chairman, Board of Supervisors                  Audubon County Auditor Clerk


