                                  Board of Supervisors Minutes
                                        August 24, 2026

The Tama County Board of Supervisors met at 8:30 a.m. August 24, 2026. Present: 1st District
Supervisor, Curt Hilmer; 2nd District Supervisor, David Turner; 3rd District Supervisor, Heather
Knebel; 4th District Supervisor, Mark Doland and 5th District Supervisor, Curt Kupka. Also, Tama
County Auditor, Karen Rohrs, and members of the public.

The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Doland to approve the agenda. Discussion: None. All voted aye.
Motion carried.

Public Comments: Public comments were heard from Travis Starr. Public comment time closed at
8:49 am.

Motion by Doland, seconded by Hilmer to approve the minutes of the August 17th regular meeting.
Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Motion by Doland, seconded by Kupka to approve the minutes of the August 17th special meeting.
Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Taylor House, Road’s Foreman, and Supervisor Kupka gave a roads project report.

The engineer’s office received an invoice for work Manatt’s provided on a paving project on
Highway E66. Motion by Kupka, seconded by Turner to approve the transfer of funds from the
County’s Farm to Market account to the Iowa Department of Transportation (IDOT) to pay the
invoice and authorize the Chairwoman to sign the authorization for the transfer of funds on behalf
of the County Engineer. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

The engineer’s office received bids for work on Highway E29. Motion by Hilmer, seconded by
Kupka to accept the bid from Iowa Bridge & Culvert and authorize the Chairwoman to sign
documents. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

The engineer’s office has received a utility permit for Poweshiek Water Association. Motion by
Kupka, seconded by Turner to approve the utility permit for Poweshiek Water Association and
authorize the Chairwoman to sign the utility permit. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion
carried.

The engineer’s office has received a utility permit for Consumer Energy. Motion by Doland,
seconded by Hilmer to approve the utility permit for Consumer Energy and authorize the
Chairwoman to sign the utility permit. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Supervisor Turner gave an IT projects report.
Motion by Doland, seconded by Turner to approve moving the Board’s September 7th meeting to
Tuesday, September 8th at 8:30 am, due to Labor Day Holiday. Discussion: None. All voted
aye. Motion carried.

At the Board’s special meeting on August 17th, they accepted a petition to file with the auditor.
After that filing the auditor received a written objection to the petition. An Objection Panel was
convened to review the written objection on August 21st, and it was found that the petition was
valid. A copy of the Objection Panel’s findings can be requested from the auditor’s office. Motion
by Doland, seconded by Hilmer to approve the following resolution. Discussion: None.
                                     RESOLUTION 8-24-2026A
A RESOLUTION OF THE TAMA COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
DETERMINING THE VALIDITY OF A CITIZEN PETITION AND DIRECTING
SUBMISSION OF A PUBLIC MEASURE TO REDUCE THE NUMBER OF
SUPERVISORS FROM FIVE TO THREE AT THE NOVEMBER 2026 GENERAL
ELECTION.
WHEREAS, Iowa Code § 331.204 provides that in a county having a five‑member board of
supervisors, the board shall, upon petition of the number of eligible electors specified in Iowa
Code § 331.306, submit to the registered voters at a general election a proposition to reduce the
number of supervisors to three; and
WHEREAS a citizen petition requesting that a public measure be submitted to the registered
voters of Tama County to reduce the number of members of the Tama County Board of
Supervisors from five (5) members to three (3) members was timely submitted to the Board of
Supervisors on August 10, 2026; and
WHEREAS an objection to the petition was timely received on August 17, 2026; and
WHEREAS an Objection Panel convened in accordance with applicable Iowa law reviewed the
objection and, after considering the petition, the objection, and information presented determined
by majority vote that the petition is valid; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors has reviewed the Objection Panel’s findings and
independently determined that the petition is sufficient and valid for submission to the registered
voters of Tama County; and
WHEREAS Iowa Code Section 331.204 provides for the submission of a proposition to reduce
the number of county supervisors from five (5) to three (3) at a general election;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Tama County Board of Supervisors that the
citizen petition requesting a reduction in the number of members of the Tama County Board of
Supervisors from five (5) to three (3) is hereby determined to be valid based on the Board’s
review and the Objection Panel’s majority decision.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT, pursuant to Iowa Code Section 331.204, the following
public measure shall be submitted to the registered voters of Tama County at the November 2026
General Election:

Shall the following public measure be adopted?

YES
NO
The number of Tama County Supervisors shall be decreased from five members to three
members.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Tama County Auditor, acting as Commissioner of
Elections for Tama County, is authorized and directed to take all actions necessary and lawful to
place and certify the foregoing public measure on the November 2026 General Election ballot in
accordance with applicable Iowa law, including coordination with the Iowa Secretary of State
and other election officials.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Resolution is administrative and procedural in nature
and does not state or imply the Board’s advocacy for or against the public measure.
Roll Call Vote: Hilmer, aye. Turner, aye. Knebel, aye. Doland, aye. Kupka, aye. Resolution
passed and adopted this 24th day of August, 2026. Heather Knebel, Chairwoman, Board of
Supervisors. Karen Rohrs, County Auditor.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Kupka to approve health claims for payment as presented in the
amount of $104.13. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Kupka to approve the regular claims for payment as presented in
the amount of $213,458.63. Discussion: The larger amount in claims this week is due to purchases
made by secondary roads. All voted aye. Motion carried.

New Business: Supervisor Kupka gave an update on the landfill.

Public Comments: Public comments were heard from Jim Smith and Gerald Husak. Public
comment time closed at 9:09 am.

The Board took a brief recess at 9:09 am. The Board came out of recess at 9:15 am. Upon coming
out of the recess Supervisor Doland joined the meeting by phone.

The Board went into exempt session at 9:16 am for discussion regarding the secondary road’s union
contract. The Board came out of exempt session at 10:02 am.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Kupka to designate representatives Supervisor Knebel and
Supervisor Doland to retain legal counsel concerning matters of union negotiations. Discussion:
None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Motion by Hilmer, seconded by Turner to adjourn the meeting. All voted aye. Motion carried.
Chairwoman Knebel adjourned the meeting at 10:03 am.
These minutes are intended to provide a summary of the discussions and decisions made during the Board of
Supervisor meeting. For the most accurate and comprehensive record, please refer to the audio recording of the
meeting that can be provided upon request at the auditor’s office.
