                                 Board of Supervisors Minutes
                                      November 10, 2025

The Tama County Board of Supervisors met at 8:30 a.m. November 10, 2025. Present: 1st District
Supervisor, Curt Hilmer; 2nd District Supervisor, David Turner; 3rd District Supervisor, Heather
Knebel; 4th District Supervisor, Mark Doland and 5th District Supervisor, Curt Kupka. Also, Tama
County Auditor, Karen Rohrs, and members of the public.

The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Kupka to approve the agenda. Discussion: None. All voted aye.
Motion carried.

Public Comments: Public comments were heard from Roger Wacha. Public comment time closed
at 8:34 am.

Motion by Knebel, seconded by Hilmer to approve the minutes of the November 3rd regular
meeting. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Ben Daleske, Tama County Engineer, joined the meeting via Teams to give his road projects report.
He also had Final Plans for BRS-C086(119)—60—86 for the bridge replacement project on E29.
Motion by Kupka, seconded by Turner to approve the Final Plans for BRS-C088(119)—60—86,
the bridge replacement project on E29, and to authorize the Board to sign the approved plans.
Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

The Board met with Skip Lowe from North Risk Partners who gave a report on the county health
plan.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Kupka to approve the auditor to submit an ad for county crop and
pastureland bidding to the newspapers to be advertised in the month of December with bids
accepted by January 12th. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Tama County Treasurer would like approval from the Board to open a bank account at the State
Bank of Toledo for the EMS funds being collected. Motion by Turner, seconded by Hilmer to
approve the treasurer opening a bank account at the State Bank of Toledo for the EMS funds.
Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Motion by Hilmer, seconded by Turner to authorize the following Tama County representatives as
signers on the new EMS account with the State Bank of Toledo: Karen Rohrs, Auditor, Amanda
Kriegel, Treasurer, and Sara Gilbert, Treasurer Tax Assistant. Discussion: None. All voted aye.
Motion carried.

Motion by Hilmer, seconded by Knebel to approve the Annual Urban Renewal Report for Fiscal
Year 2024-2025 as presented by the Auditor. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.
Motion by Hilmer, seconded by Knebel to approve the following resolution regarding a moratorium
on data mining and centers in Tama County, IA. Discussion: None.
                                    RESOLUTION 11-10-2025A
    Resolution for Immediate and Indefinite Moratorium on Data Mining and Centers in
                                           Tama County, IA
WHEREAS, the Tama County Board of Supervisors is vested with the authority to protect the
public health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of Tama County
WHEREAS, The Tama County Board of Supervisors recognizes the increasing interest in the
development of data mining and centers within Iowa and;
WHEREAS, There currently is no county ordinance governing the siting, construction, or operation
of data mining and centers in Tama County and;
WHEREAS, Potential concerns have been raised regarding the impacts of data mining and centers
on Agricultural resources, electricity infrastructure, water resources, and overall community
character and;
WHEREAS, The absence of an ordinance and comprehensive plan may hinder the County’s ability
to manage these impacts in a manner that protects the public interest and the welfare of its residents
and;
WHEREAS, It is in the best interest of Tama County and its residents to engage in a deliberate and
informed process to establish appropriate regulations prior to permitting any new data mining and
centers and;
WHEREAS, The Tama County Zoning Commission is the appropriate body to develop a
comprehensive ordinance addressing the siting and regulation of data mining and centers;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Tama County Board of Supervisors that:
    • The Tama County Board of Supervisors hereby imposes an immediate and indefinite
        moratorium on the acceptance, review, approval, or permitting of any new data mining
        and center developments within Tama County, Iowa.
    • This moratorium shall remain in effect until:
            o A comprehensive land use plan is adopted by Tama County; and
            o The Tama County Zoning Commission drafts and the Board of Supervisors enacts
                a data mining and center ordinance providing for the appropriate regulation,
                siting, and operation of data centers.
    • The Tama County Zoning Commission is hereby directed to work on the development of
        a comprehensive data center ordinance.
    Roll Call Vote: Hilmer, aye. Turner, aye. Knebel, aye. Doland, aye. Kupka, aye. Resolution
    passed and adopted this 10th day of November, 2025. Mark Doland, Chairman, Board of
    Supervisors. Karen Rohrs, County Auditor.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Kupka to approve the following resolution regarding a moratorium
on battery storage projects in Tama County, IA. Discussion: None.
                                    RESOLUTION 11-10-2025B
    A Resolution Establishing an Indefinite Moratorium on Battery Storage Projects in
                                            Tama County
WHEREAS, the Tama County Board of Supervisors is vested with the authority to protect the
public health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of Tama County; and
WHEREAS, the County currently lacks a specific ordinance or comprehensive regulatory
framework governing the siting, development, and operation of battery storage projects; and
WHEREAS, the Board recognizes the need to develop an ordinance to address the unique
characteristics and potential impacts of battery storage projects; and
WHEREAS, the preservation of Tama County's agricultural lands, rural character, and natural
resources is of vital importance to the well-being and sustainability of the county; and
WHEREAS, the Board has identified concerns related to battery storage projects, including but not
limited to fire hazards, safety risks, adequacy of emergency response preparedness, potential for
environmental contamination, appropriate setbacks from properties and sensitive uses, and visual
impacts on the landscape; and
WHEREAS, it is essential to balance the property rights of landowners with the County's
responsibility to protect public health, safety, and welfare, and to ensure that any future battery
storage projects are thoroughly evaluated and appropriately regulated and;
WHEREAS, The Tama County Zoning Commission is the appropriate body to develop a
comprehensive ordinance addressing the siting and regulation of battery storage projects.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Tama County Board of Supervisors as follows:
    • The Board hereby establishes an indefinite moratorium on the acceptance, review, or
        approval of any applications or permits for new battery storage projects within Tama
        County, effective immediately upon adoption of this Resolution.
    • This moratorium applies to all proposed battery storage facilities, regardless of size,
        technology, or location, that are not currently permitted or under construction as of the
        effective date of this Resolution.
    • The moratorium shall remain in effect until:
             o A comprehensive land use plan is adopted by Tama County; and
             o The Tama County Zoning Commission drafts and the Board of Supervisors enacts
                 a data center ordinance providing for the appropriate regulation, siting, and
                 operation of data centers.
    • The Tama County Zoning Commission is hereby directed to work on the development of
        a comprehensive data center ordinance.
    Roll Call Vote: Hilmer, aye. Turner, aye. Knebel, aye. Doland, aye. Kupka, aye. Resolution
    passed and adopted this 10th day of November, 2025. Mark Doland, Chairman, Board of
    Supervisors. Karen Rohrs, County Auditor.

The Zoning Administrator, Laura Wilson, presented a Variance Approval from the Board of
Adjustment for the Board of Supervisors to review per Iowa Code 335.10(2) for Canaday parcel
05.33.334.003. Motion by Turner, seconded by Kupka to approve the Board of Adjustment’s
Variance Approval. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Motion by Turner, seconded by Kupka to approve the claims for payment as presented in the
amount of $222,342.99. Discussion: None. All voted aye. Motion carried.

Public Comments: Public comments were heard from Karen Murty, Stacey Zeman, Jim Smith, Jack
Cooper. Public comment time closed at 9:57 am.

Motion by Knebel, seconded by Turner to adjourn the meeting. All voted aye. Motion carried.
Chairman Doland adjourned the meeting at 9:58 am.
These minutes are intended to provide a summary of the discussions and decisions made during the Board of
Supervisor meeting. For the most accurate and comprehensive record, please refer to the audio recording of the
meeting that can be provided upon request at the auditor’s office.
