Unapproved Emmet County Board of Supervisor Minutes
January 28, 2025, at 08:30 a.m.
Regular Meeting
Board Room, Courthouse

Present: Lisa Hansen, Chair; John Pluth, Jeff Quastad, Todd Glasnapp Absent: Tim Schumacher

Media: Mike Tidemann, Ed Funston

Emmet County Employees present: Melanie Summers Bauler, Heidi Goebel

Chairman Hansen, called the meeting to order. All in attendance recited the Pledge of Allegiance. Motion by
Glasnapp, second by Quastad to approve the minutes of the last meeting 1.21.2025 also approving them for
publication. Motion to approve the agenda by Pluth, second by Quastad. All Ayes, motion carried.

Committee updates: Quastad-Central Iowa Juvenile Detention 28E filing update and ECCOG; Glasnapp-Wednesday
(January 29) is the Iowa Great Lakes Corridor annual banquet; Hansen-Early Childhood.

Public Forum- Auditor Goebel let the board know that the Electronic Poll Book Loan from the Iowa Secretary of
State’s Iowa has been approved. She went over a few board clerk procedural items learned

Todd Glasnapp, Emmet County Supervisor, was reappointed to a three-year term for the Northwest Iowa Regional
Housing Authority. Motion Quastad Second Pluth All Ayes, motion carried.

Resolution 25-05 Moratorium on the Construction of Utility Scale Solar Energy Systems (USSES) and Battery
Energy Storage Systems (BESS) in the Unincorporated Areas of Emmet County, Iowa. Motion Quastad Second
Pluth. Roll call: Glasnapp-aye, Pluth-aye, Quastad-aye, Hansen-aye. Schumacher-absent. Resolution adopted.

                                              RESOLUTION #2025-05

 Temporary Moratorium on the Construction of USSES and BESS in the Unincorporated Areas Of Emmet
                                           County, Iowa

Emmet County Board of Supervisors

Resolution No. 2025-05

Resolution to Establish a Temporary Moratorium on the Construction of Utility Scale Solar Energy Systems
(USSES) and Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) in the Unincorporated Areas of Emmet County Iowa;
and

WHEREAS the Board of Supervisors, hereafter referred to as “Board”, has concerns that in the future persons may
desire to construct Utility Scale Solar Energy Systems (USSES), commonly referred to as solar farms, and/or
Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) in the unincorporated areas of Emmet County, Iowa; and

WHEREAS the Board believes that before any such facilities are constructed in Emmet County, ordinances should
be put in place to ensure that the Board and Zoning Administrator are aware of these projects in Emmet County and
that the construction, operation, and deconstruction of these facilities would be subject to reasonable regulations that
would ensure that said facilities are constructed and operated in a safe manner, the rights of persons or property
within reasonable distance of said facilities are appropriately protected, and the conditions of County roads are
protected; and

WHEREAS the Board desires to have said temporary moratoriums in place until such time as ordinances can be
prepared and passed to provide appropriate regulation of said facilities.

BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED by the Emmet County Board of Supervisors that:
1. The board does hereby establish and impose a temporary moratorium on the construction of a Utility Scale Solar
Energy System (USSES), commonly referred to as solar farms, in the unincorporated areas of Emmet County. No
USSES facilities or appurtenances to said facilities shall be constructed in the unincorporated areas of Emmet
County. This shall include the renovation of any existing structures to be used as said facility. This moratorium will
remain in place until September 30, 2025, at 11:59 p.m. unless extended by the Board prior to the expiration.

2. The Board does hereby establish and impose a temporary moratorium on the construction of a Battery Energy
Storage Systems (BESS) in the unincorporated areas of Emmet County. No BESS facilities or appurtenances to said
facilities shall be constructed in the unincorporated areas of Emmet County. This shall include the renovation of any
existing structures to be used as said facility. This moratorium will remain in place until September 30, 2025, at
11:59 p.m. unless extended by the Board prior to the expiration.

3. The Emmet County Board of Supervisors reserves the right to end the moratorium on either USSES or BESS
prior to the approved term of the moratorium upon completion of the amendments to the Emmet County Zoning
Ordinance and satisfactory resolution of the issues as determined by the Emmet County Board of Supervisors.

4. This resolution as to both temporary moratoriums shall become effective upon passage.

Lisa Hansen, Board of Supervisors Chair signed the 28 th day of January 2025. Heidi Goebel, Auditor, attested.


Resolution 25-06 Continuation of a Moratorium on Issuing Conditional Use/Zoning Permits for the Construction of
Commercial Wind Energy Conversion Systems. Motion Pluth, second Quastad. Roll call: Glasnapp-aye, Pluth-aye,
Quastad-aye, Hansen-aye. Schumacher-absent. Resolution adopted.

      RESOLUTION #25-06 CONTINUATION OF A MORATORIUM ON ISSUING CONDITIONAL
         USE/ZONING PERMITS FOR THE CONSTUCTION OF COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY
                                              CONVERSION SYSTEMS
WHEREAS, Iowa Code Chapter 335 grants counties the ability to adopt Zoning Ordinances to regulate land use
within its jurisdictional boundaries; and
WHEREAS, from time to time, it is necessary and prudent to review and study ordinances for updates to ensure
proper regulation; and
WHEREAS, the size and impact of Commercial Wind Energy Conversion Systems (CWECS) have the potential to
create an excessive burden on the County’s infrastructure, the environment, wildlife, nearby property owners and a
potential to interfere with the operation of Doppler Weather Radar accuracy; and
 WHEREAS, CWECS require a rezoning subject to consideration and action by the Emmet County Zoning Board of
Supervisors; and
WHEREAS, the Emmet County Board of Supervisors recognizes that Commercial Wind Energy Conversion
Systems may affect the character of the surrounding area and the Board desires that all applications for Commercial
Wind Energy Conversion Systems be considered consistently within the purpose and intent of an amended Emmet
County Zoning Ordinance so that the most appropriate uses of land are encouraged throughout unincorporated
Emmet County; and
WHEREAS, the Emmet County Board of Supervisors desires to amend the current zoning ordinance as it pertains to
CWECS and has not yet approved the version passed by Emmet County’s Planning and Zoning Commission; and
WHEREAS, Emmet County is currently in the process of reviewing the amendment to the zoning ordinance and
said process will involve multiple sessions;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Emmet County Board of Supervisors hereby established a
temporary moratorium on the issuing conditional use/zoning permits for the purpose of constructing a CWECS, that
was to expire at 11:59 p.m. Central Time on Friday, January 31, 2025. This moratorium will be continued until July
31, 2025 at 11:59 p.m. by action of the Board of Supervisors, to allow the above referenced changes to the Emmet
County Zoning Ordinance concerning CWECS, to be considered by the Emmet County Board of Supervisors; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this resolution and resulting moratorium continuation does not affect any
currently filed permit applications for CWECS; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Emmet County Board of Supervisors reserves the right to end the
moratorium continuation prior to the approved term of the moratorium upon completion of the amendments to the
Emmet County Zoning Ordinance and satisfactory resolution of the issues as determined by the Emmet County
Board of Supervisors; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the moratorium continuation approved by this Resolution shall be effective
immediately upon adoption of this Resolution.

Lisa Hansen, Board of Supervisors Chair signed the 28 th day of January 2025. Heidi Goebel, Auditor, attested.

Emmet County Compensation Board Elected Official FY26 Salary recommendation. Tabled.

Miscellaneous Drainage-the Board, acting as drainage district trustees, reviewed the Iowa DNR Power Point
presentation prepared by Mike Hawkins. The power point pictures of DD 7 and DD 17 pertained to sediment
movement after the draining of Swan Lake by the Iowa DNR in late 2022/2023. Before and after pictures of the
draining of Swan Lake and DD 7 and DD 17.

Arvin Winther and Stave presented the FY 2024 Emmet County External Audit. The FY 24 Audit Report
Motion by Pluth, second by Glasnapp to accept the FY24 External Audit. All Ayes, motion carried.

Manure Management Plans
Facility                           Owner                               Site #
Black Cat Site                     GrowAg Investments                  71781
Jack Creek 23                      Summit Pork III                     71663
PRKG 368                           PRKG 368                            67605
Christensen Family Farms           Christensen Farms & Feedlots Inc    60618
J & R Inc Site II                  Jay Gunderson                       58943

Motion by Glasnapp, second by Quastad to adjourn at 10:00 a.m. All ayes. Motion carried.

Board adjourned to a budget work session.



__________________________________                   _______________________________________
Heidi Goebel, Auditor                                Lisa Hansen, Chairman
