TIPTON, IOWA August 25, 2026

The Cedar County Board of Supervisors met in regular session at 8:30 a.m. August 25, 2026
with the following members present: Bixler, Barnhart, Gaul, Kaufmann, and Chairperson Bell.
Minutes reported by Deputy Auditor Hamdorf. Members of the public were also present.

The Board viewed correspondence from various agencies.

It was noted the following Handwritten Disbursement was issued on 8/21/2026 to the Cedar
County Treasurer for Midwest Group Benefits, Inc. for an electronic deposit: #446679 for
$10,895.39-self funded medical claims.

Moved by Sup. Bixler seconded by Sup. Barnhart to approve the agenda.
Ayes: All

Chairperson Bell addressed the public for comments. There were none.

Moved by Sup. Barnhart seconded by Sup. Kaufmann to approve the Board Minutes of August
18, 2026.
Ayes: All

Moved by Sup. Gaul seconded by Sup. Bixler to approve Payroll Disbursements #206455-
206468 for the period ending 8/15/26 and to be paid on 8/21/26.
Ayes: All

The Board reported on Outreach/Committee Meetings they attended.

Moved by Sup. Kaufmann seconded by Sup. Bixler to approve and authorize Chairperson Bell to
sign the Proclamation for September being Recovery Month.
Ayes: All

Community Services Director Tischuk presented the Board with updated job descriptions for
Community Services Director, Community Services Assistant, Chief Privacy Officer and Chief
Security Officer. HR Attorney Galloway reviewed and approved each job description.

Moved by Sup. Barnhart seconded by Sup. Bixler to approve the job descriptions for Community
Services Director, Community Services Assistant, Chief Privacy Officer and Chief Security
Officer.

Ayes: All

Marc Hines, CEO Crossroads, Inc. met with the Board to discuss Supported Community Living
(SCL) homes in Tipton. Hines is asking for approval for a fifth person to move into one of the
homes, 609 East 2nd Street, and begin receiving services. lowa Health and Human Services
requires providers to seek approval from the department for any SCL home serving five people.
If able to obtain approval from the applicable county board, the need to pursue this approval
annually will be waived. This approval would allow us to serve another Tipton resident in need
and help us avoid administrative exercises that take time and energy away from caring for
people.

Moved by Sup. Bixler seconded by Sup. Kaufmann to approve a fifth person to move into a SCL
home at 609 East 2" Street, Tipton.
Ayes: All

At 9:30 a.m. EMS Director Dinsch met with the Board to discuss the possibility of joining
City/County Management Services with Tipton Ambulance. The current Director of Tipton
Ambulance is leaving September 21, 2026. Discussion was held on a MOU and a 28E
Agreement to operate Tipton Ambulance funded by the City of Tipton during a transitioning
period for the County to take over. Dinsch thought that the city could hire a paramedic to
replace the director’s position for the transitioning period. Barnhart had a press release the
Board reviewed that will be published in the paper.


Moved by Sup. Kaufmann seconded by Sup. Gaul to appoint and authorize Sup. Bixler, Sup.
Barnhart, EMS Director Dinsch and County Attorney Blank to negotiate with the City of Tipton
for the 28E Agreement and MOU for joining City/County Management Services with Tipton
Ambulance.

Ayes: All

Moved by Sup. Gaul seconded by Sup. Barnhart to approve lowa DOT detour agreement for a
bridge replacement on Highway 30 between Clarence and Lowden scheduled for 2030.
Ayes: All

Moved by Sup. Kaufmann seconded by Sup. Bixler to approve a utility permit for Interstate
Light & Power in and near Stanwood and the $100 fee applies.
Ayes: All

Moved by Sup. Barnhart seconded by Sup. Kaufmann to approve a utility permit for Liberty
Communications and waive the $100 fee.
Ayes: All

Sup. Gaul left the meeting at 10:00 a.m.

Moved by Sup. Kaufmann seconded by Sup. Bixler to authorize Power of Attorney to EMS
Director Dinsch to sign DEA registration requirements.

Ayes: All

Absent: Gaul

Moved by Sup. Bixler seconded by Sup. Kaufmann to approve the blood supplier contract
subject to County Attorney Blank’s approval.

Ayes: All

Absent: Gaul

Moved by Sup. Kaufmann seconded by Sup. Barnhart to respectfully adjourn at 10:27 a.m., to
September 1, 2026.

Ayes: All

Absent: Gaul

Nicki Welch, Auditor fen Bell Chaerson

