                                                                               March 17, 2026

The Shelby County Board of Supervisors met in regular session at 9:00 A.M. in the Supervisors
Chamber in the Courthouse with the following members present: Charles Parkhurst, Mike
Kolbe, Bryce Schaben, and Taryn Knapp, Clerk.

Chairman, Charles Parkhurst, asked that any conflict of interest be stated concerning any item
on the agenda. None was stated

It was moved by Kolbe, seconded by Schaben, to approve the agenda. Motion carried
unanimously.

It was moved by Schaben, seconded by Kolbe to approve the minutes of March 3rd, 2026.
Motion carried unanimously.

It was moved by Kolbe, seconded by Schaben to approve the recently processed claims.
Motion carried unanimously.

Chayce Coenen and Jeff Curtis gave an introduction of Samuels Group and the services they
provide. Samuels Group discussed the process from start to finish and proposed the next step
of providing an assessment study for Shelby County.

Supervisors then joined in on the Cass County Supervisor’s meeting to discuss vacation of a
road easement on the county line. Schaben made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2026-13
Herbers Akron Road/100th Street Vacation, Kolbe seconded the motion. Motion carried
unanimously.
                                    RESOLUTION 2026-13
                      VACATE PART OF 100TH STREET EASEMENT

   WHEREAS, This road right of way is held by easement and will not change the existing
   traveled portion of 100th. Street, and:

   WHEREAS, a request has been filed with the Shelby County Engineer asking that action
   be taken to vacate and close a section of Shelby County Secondary Road, described as
   follows:

   That portion of 100th Street, known as Akron Road in Cass County, established on
   November 9th, 1877 as Road # 10 of 1877 (See Cass County Road Record Book, North
   Half, Brighton Township, Section 5), commencing (at the
   termination point of a previous road vacation recorded in Shelby County Supervisor's
   Meeting Minute Book #9, page 438) 1,258 feet easterly of the SW corner of section 32,
   Clay Township (T-78N, R-37W), thence running easterly, along the South line of said
   section 32, a distance of about 3,256 feet to a point which is 750 feet westerly of the SE
   corner of said section 32 and on the South line of said section 32. Said portion of 100th
   Street (50 feet wide) is 25 feet wide in
   Cass County & 25 feet wide in Shelby County and contains about 1.87 acres of road right
   of way in Shelby County. The total length of 100th Street to be vacated is about 3,256
   feet.

   WHEREAS, No objections have been received, either in writing or by persons present.

   NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Shelby County Board of Supervisors that
   the subject section of road be ordered vacated and closed in accordance with Iowa Code
   Chapter 306.

Chris Fredericksen, Engineer, presented ROW permits from FMCTC. Kolbe made a motion to
approve the ROW permits; Schaben seconded the motion. Motion carried unanimously.
Fredericksen then gave a brief update on Spring projects.
Tony Buman, Zoning Administrator, presented the following resolutions for approval:

                           RESOLUTION 2026-14
            MORATORIUM ON SOLAR ENERGY C ONSTRUCTION PERMITS

WHEREAS, Shelby County Iowa has no existing ordinance governing the siting,
construction, and operation of commercial solar energy systems in unincorporated areas of
Shelby County, Iowa, AND

WHEREAS, the County has an interest in protecting the County's infrastructure, natural
resources and property rights through adequate provisions governing the siting,
construction, and operation of commercial solar energy systems, AND

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors will require substantial time to gather information and
coordinate with multiple agencies for the purpose of reviewing, updating or creating
ordinances, policies and procedures related to commercial solar energy systems, AND

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Supervisors of Shelby County,
Iowa, that Shelby County now imposes a moratorium, effective immediately and for a period
ending July 1st 2027, on the siting, construction, and operation of commercial solar energy
systems, for the purpose of drafting and adopting an ordinance regulating commercial solar
energy systems.

                           RESOLUTION 2026-15
           MORATORIUM ON BATTERY STORAGE CONSTRUCTION PERMITS

WHEREAS, Shelby County Iowa has no existing ordinance governing the siting,
construction, and operation of commercial battery storage projects in unincorporated areas of
Shelby County, Iowa, AND

WHEREAS, the County has an interest in protecting the County's infrastructure, natural
resources and property rights through adequate provisions governing the siting,
construction, and operation of commercial battery storage projects, AND

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors will require substantial time to gather information and
coordinate with multiple agencies for the purpose of reviewing, updating or creating
ordinances, policies and procedures relative to commercial battery storage projects, AND

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Supervisors of Shelby County Iowa,
that Shelby County now imposes a moratorium, effective immediately and for a period
ending July 1st 2027, on the siting, construction, and operation of commercial battery storage
projects, for the purpose of drafting and adopting an ordinance regulating commercial battery
storage projects.

                                      RESOLUTION 2026-16
               MORATORIUM ON ASSET MINING/DATA CENTER PERMITS

WHEREAS, Shelby County Iowa has no existing ordinance governing the siting,
construction, and operation of commercial digital asset mining/data centers in
unincorporated areas of Shelby County, Iowa, AND

WHEREAS, Digital asset mining/data centers have the potential to create an excessive burden
on the County’s infrastructure as well as nearby property owners; AND

WHEREAS, the County has an interest in protecting the County's infrastructure, natural resources
and property rights through adequate provisions governing the siting, construction, and operation
of commercial digital asset mining/data centers, AND

WHEREAS, the Shelby County Board of Supervisors recognizes that commercial digital asset
mining/data centers may affect the character of the surrounding area and the Board desires
that all applications for commercial digital asset mining/data centers be considered
consistently within the purpose and intent of the Shelby County Zoning Ordinance so that the
most appropriate uses of land are encouraged throughout unincorporated Shelby County;
AND

WHEREAS, the Shelby County Board of Supervisors desires to explore the approval
requirements for commercial digital asset mining/data centers to ensure the protection of the
public’s health, safety, and general welfare; AND

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Shelby County Board of Supervisors hereby
establishes a moratorium effective immediately and for a period ending July 1st, 2027 on the
siting, construction and operation of commercial digital asset mining/data centers for the
purpose of drafting and adopting an ordinance regulating commercial digital asset
mining/data centers.

                           RESOLUTION 2026-17
             MORATORIUM ON WIND ENERGY CONSTRUCTION PERMITS

WHEREAS, Shelby County Iowa has no existing ordinance governing the siting, construction,
and operation of commercial wind energy systems in unincorporated areas of Shelby County,
Iowa, AND

WHEREAS, the County has an interest in protecting the County's infrastructure, natural
resources and property rights through adequate provisions governing the siting, construction,
and operation of commercial wind energy systems, AND

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors will require substantial time to gather information and
coordinate with multiple agencies for the purpose of reviewing, updating or creating
ordinances, policies and procedures related to commercial wind energy systems, AND

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Supervisors of Shelby County Iowa,
that Shelby County now imposes a moratorium, effective immediately for a period ending July
1st, 2027, on the siting, construction, and operation of commercial wind energy systems, for
the purpose of drafting and adopting an ordinance regulating commercial wind energy
systems.

Schaben made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2026-14 Moratorium on Solar Energy
Construction Permits, Kolbe seconded the motion. Motion carried unanimously.

Kolbe made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2026-15 Moratorium on Battery Storage
Construction Permits, Schaben seconded the motion. Motion carried unanimously.

Schaben made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2026-16 Moratorium on Asset
Mining/Data Center Permits, Kolbe seconded the motion. Motion carried unanimously.

Kolbe made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2026-17 Moratorium on Wind Energy
Construction Permits, Schaben seconded the motion. Motion carried unanimously.

Kolbe made a motion and Schaben seconded the motion to approve the following resolution,
motion carried unanimously.
                                 RESOLUTION 2026-18
 A RESOLUTION TO REPEAL RESOLUTION 2025-9 TO ELIMINATE THE CO2 PIPELINE
                                  LIAISON POSITION

WHEREAS, the Shelby County Board of Supervisors created the position of CO2 pipeline
liaison on January 21, 2025, to assist the Board with the issues surrounding the proposed CO2
pipeline in Shelby County;

WHEREAS, this position is no longer necessary or feasible;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Shelby County Board of Supervisors that:
 1. The position of CO2 pipeline liaison is hereby eliminated effective April 1, 2026.
 2. Resolution 2025-9 is repealed in its entirety.

Schaben made a motion to approve the amended agreement between Shelby County
Ambulance Service and Myrtue Memorial Hospital, Kolbe seconded the motion. Motion
carried unanimously.

Kolbe made a motion and Schaben seconded the motion to approve EMS and EMA to apply
for a Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN). Motion carried unanimously.

Alex Londo, EMA Coordinator, gave a department update which included a recommendation
from the ESA to amend the Fire Billing Ordinance to increase billing amounts.

Tony Buman, Zoning Administrator, informed the Supervisors that the Planning and Zoning
Board will be meeting in April to discuss removing the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline section
from the Zoning Ordinance. Buman also stated that the Assessor’s Office will be mailing
Assessment Notices to property owners who had changes to their properties in calendar year
2025.

Supervisor Kolbe attended the Shelby County Emergency Preparedness event as well as the
ISAC conference. Supervisor Schaben attended the Conservation Board meeting, SWI Juvenile
meeting, as well as ISAC. Supervisor Parkhurst will attend upcoming meetings with West
Central, MAPA, and SWIPCO.

Schaben made a motion and Kolbe seconded to approve the liquor license for the Shelby
County Golf Course. Motion carried unanimously.


Having no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:06 A.M.




                                                      Charles Parkhurst, Chairman
ATTEST:




Taryn Knapp
Clerk to the Board of Supervisors
