Courthouse
Emmetsburg, Iowa
June 3, 2025, 8:00 a.m.

        The Palo Alto County Board of Supervisors met in regular session. Members present: Roger Faulstick,
Chair; Linus Solberg, Keith Wirtz, Ronald Graettinger, Craig Merrill. Present: Diane Weiland, Reporter/Democrat;
Anne Quail, County Attorney; Jordan Morey, Auditor’s Office; Aletha King, Zoning; Debbie Kassel.

       Unless otherwise indicated, all of the motions offered at this meeting were carried with the following vote:
Ayes: Merrill, Graettinger, Wirtz, Solberg, Faulstick. Nays: None.     Abstentions: None.

        Roger Faulstick, Chair, called the meeting to order and lead the Pledge of Allegiance.

        Motion by Wirtz, 2nd by Graettinger to approve the agenda for June 3, 2025. Motion Carried.

        Motion by Graettinger, 2nd by Solberg to approve the minutes for May 27, 2025. Motion Carried.

        Aletha King, Zoning, met with the Board. Aletha presented a subdivision plat for Kassel Farms, Inc. in
Section 13 of Emmetsburg Township.
        Motion by Wirtz, 2nd by Merrill to approve the subdivision plat for Kassel Farms, Inc. in Section 13 of
Emmetsburg Township pending easement amendment. Motion Carried.

         Bruce Nelson met with the Board to provide an update on the bike trail. This year the committee will
complete 900’ of bike trails crossing Munn property. Bruce requested 160 cubic yards of fill dirt for the trail.
Motion by Solberg, 2nd by Merrill to approve the donation of 160 cubic yards of fill dirt for the bike trail. Motion
Carried.

       Motion by Solberg, 2nd by Wirtz to approve change order #1 and pay application #2 to Cole Excavation for
the IDALS project. Motion Carried.

        No one was present for public comment.

       Walter Davis-Oeth, County Engineer, met with the Board. Walter introduced Brandon Wejrowki to the
Board. Brandon is the summer intern working in the Engineer’s Office.

       Motion by Graettinger, 2nd by Merrill to approve hiring Blake Bixby for the 2025 summer season for
Secondary Roads at $17.50 per hour effective June 2, 2025. Motion Carried.

      Motion by Solberg, 2nd by Wirtz to approve hiring Benedict Matthews for the 2025 summer season for
Secondary Roads at $17.00 per hour effective June 2, 2025. Motion Carried.

       Motion by Solberg, 2nd by Graettinger to approve the Traffic Safety Improvement Project Application.
Motion Carried.

       Motion by Merrill, 2nd by Wirtz to approve the concrete patching quote from Ten Point for $97,366 for
2025. Motion Carried.


                                             RESOLUTION NO. 6-3-2025

        A RESOLUTION APPROVING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON CRYPTOCURRENCY
        AND DATA MINING FACILITIES

         WHEREAS, Iowa Code Chapter 335 granted counties the ability to adopt a Zoning Ordinance to regulate the land
use within its jurisdictional boundaries; and,
         WHEREAS, from time to time, it is necessary and prudent to review and study said ordinances for necessary
updates to ensure proper regulation; and,

         WHEREAS, the Palo Alto County Board of Supervisors is aware of persons and/or companies who may desire to
construct Cryptocurrency and Data Mining Facilities in the unincorporated areas of Palo Alto County, Iowa; and,

        WHEREAS, the Palo Alto Board of Supervisors believes that before any such facilities are constructed in Palo Alto
County, ordinances should be put in place to ensure that the Board and Assessor are aware of these projects in Palo Alto
County and that the construction, operation, and deconstruction of these facilities would be subject to reasonable regulations
that would ensure that said facilities are constructed and operated in a safe manner, the right of persons or property within
reasonable distance of said facilities area appropriately protected, and the conditions of County roads are protected; and,

          WHEREAS, Cryptocurrency and Data Mining Facilities include places, amenities or equipment, including software
or hardware used, as a business for creating cryptocurrency on a blockchain through computational and cryptographic means
in order to validate transactions and add them to a public blockchain ledger, in exchange for some form of benefit; and,

          WHEREAS, the County has an interest in protecting the County’s infrastructure, natural resources and property
rights through adequate setback provisions. The Planning and Zoning Commission will require time to gather information
and coordinate with multiple agencies for the purpose of reviewing, updating, or creating ordinances, policies, procedures
relative to Cryptocurrency and Date Mining Facility development; and,

        NOW THEREFORE, the Palo Alto County Board of Supervisors, following review, consideration, and discussion,
RESOLVES to establish and impose a temporary moratorium on the development and construction of Cryptocurrency and
Data Mining Facilities, and on the application for permits relating to such development and construction of Cryptocurrency
and Data Mining Facilities effective immediately and until to April 1, 2026; or upon passing of an ordinance in relation to
Cryptocurrency and Data Mining Facility development, whichever comes first, for the purpose of drafting and adopting a
necessary and proper Cryptocurrency and Data Mining Facility Ordinance.

         BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that no Cryptocurrency or Data Mining facilities or appurtanances thereto shall be
constructed or installed in the unincorporated areas of Palo Alto County. This shall include the renovation of any existing
structures to be used as said facility.

        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the moratorium approved by this Resolution shall become effective
immediately upon adoption of this Resolution and that upon April 1, 2026, if a Cryptocurrency and Data Mining Facility
Ordinance has not been passed, the moratorium could be extended by resolution of the Palo Alto County Board of
Supervisors if deemed necessary.

If any section, provision, or part of this resolution shall be adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not
affect the validity of the resolution as a whole or any section, provision, or part thereof not adjudge invalid or
unconstitutional.

Motion by Ron Graettinger, 2nd by Craig Merrill to introduce and approve Resolution 6-3-2025 on June 3, 2025.
Ayes: Merrill, Graettinger, Wirtz, Solberg, Faulstick.
Nays: none.
Resolution Passed.
/s/Roger Faulstick, Chair
/s/Attest: Carmen Moser, Auditor


        Kayla Hagen, EMA, met with the Board to discuss leasing office space. Motion by Merrill, 2nd by
Graettinger to approve lease agreement between Palo Alto County Board of Supervisors and Emergency
Management Commission. Motion Carried.
        The Board held a discussion on cattle grazing on drainage ditches. Keith provided pictures of DD 80 to
the Board. Keith contacted surrounding counties and reported that it is discouraged to have cattle grazing on
drainage ditches. Keith contacted Jim Hudson, Drainage Attorney. Keith reported that the BOS has authority on
permanent easements on drainage districts. The Board called Kent Malm regarding work on DD 80 on Crawford
property.

        Motion by Solberg, 2nd by Merrill to approve cigarette permit for Dollar General, Ruthven effective July 1,
2025, through June 30, 2026. Motion Carried.

        Motion by Wirtz, 2nd by Merrill to approve the septic grant application for Katy Roling. Motion Carried.

        The Board held a conference call with Pocahontas County on Jt 77 Drainage District at 10:05 a.m.
Pocahontas County Board Members Present: Peter Seehusen, Clarence Siepker, Kyle Smith, Brent Aden,
Louis Stauter. Also Present: Nita Hinrickson – Pocahontas County Auditor; Bryan Rahn - RE and Drainage
Deputy. Present: Jeff Luft.
Palo Alto County Board Members Present: Keith Wirtz, Ron Graettinger, Roger Faulstick, Craig Merrill, Linus
Solberg. Also Present: Carmen Moser- Palo Alto County Auditor, Jordan Morey- Drainage Clerk

         Motion by Stauter, 2nd by Merrill to appoint Clarence Siepker as Chair, and Nita Hinrickson as Secretary
of the joint meeting. Motion Carried.

        The joint board discussed a proposed drainage petition presented by Luft & Sons for repairs on Jt 77
drainage district. The Board will address when a signed petition is presented and then appoint an engineer.

        Motion by Louis Stauter, 2nd by Keith Wirtz to adjourn the conference call at 10:22 a.m. Motin Carried.

       Committee Reports: Craig—Care Connections; Ron—intern breakfast, Upper Des Moines; Linus—
Zoning meeting; Roger—drainage.

        Motion by Solberg, 2nd by Wirtz to adjourn. Motion Carried.



___________________________                               ___________________________
Roger Faulstick, Chairman                                 Carmen Moser, County Auditor
