                                                                             ORDINANCE 15123

 AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MARSHALLTOWN, IOWA, ESTABLISHING A
    TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON THE ACCEPTANCE, PROCESSING, AND
  ISSUANCE OF PERMITS, APPLICATIONS, AND DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS
                    RELATING TO DATA CENTERS

       WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Marshalltown, Iowa, has identified a need to
review the City's Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Ordinance, subdivision regulations, building and
development standards, and other applicable City policies and ordinances as they relate to the
development and operation of Data Centers;


       WHEREAS, Data Centers may involve land-use and infrastructure considerations that
warrant further study, including, but not lunited to, electrical demand, water consumption,
wastewater discharge, stormwater management, noise, emergency response, public safety,
transportation impacts, utility capacity, environmental impacts, building design, site security,
compatibility with surrounding land uses, and the potential need for additional development
standards or conditions;


       WHEREAS, the City Council desires to provide City staff, the Planning and Zoning
Commission, and other appropriate boards, commissions, consultants, agencies, and utility
providers sufficient time to study these matters and recommend any amendments to the City's
Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Ordinance, development regulations, or other policies deemed
appropriate;

       WHEREAS, the City Council further desires to preserve the status quo while this review
is underway and prevent the approval of applications that could be inconsistent with amendments
or regulations developed as a result of that review;


       WHEREAS, the City Council finds the following temporary regulations to be in the best
interests of the City ofMarshalltown and the general pubUc.


    NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
MARSHALLTOWN, IOWA:

That the City ofMarshalltown, Iowa, hereby adopts the following temporary ordinance designated
the "TEMPORARY DATA CENTER MORATORIUM ORDINANCE," which because of its
temporary nature shall not be printed as part of the permanent Code of Ordinances. The Temporary
Data Center Moratorium Ordinance is as follows:


Section 1. Definitions.


For purposes of this Ordinance, the following definitions shall apply:

"Data Center" shall mean a building, structure, facility, or portion thereof primarily used to house
computer servers, data-processing equipment, digital storage equipment, networking equipment,
telecommunications equipment, or related systems for the remote storage, management,
processing, transmission, or distribution of digital data, including associated mechanical,
electrical, cooling, security, power-generation, and utility infrastructure.


The term "Data Center" shall not include incidental server or computer equipment customarily
maintained as an accessory use within an office, commercial, governmental, educational, medical,
industrial, or other principal use when such equipment is used primarily to support activities
conducted on the same premises.


"Development Approval" shall include, but not be limited to, any permit, application, zoning
amendment, rezoning request, site plan, development plan, subdivision approval, special-use
permit, variance, building permit, grading permit, utility-extension approval, certificate of
occupancy, or other City authorization related to the establishment, construction, expansion, or
operation of a Data Center.


"Substantial Expansion" shall mean any expansion, modification, redevelopment, or conversion
that increases the operational capacity, physical footprint, utility demand, or primary function of a
facility for Data Center purposes.


Section 2. Temporary Moratorium Established.


A temporary moratorium is hereby established on the acceptance, processing, and issuance of
permits, applications, and other Development Approvals for the establishment, construction,
Substantial Expansion, or operation of Data Centers within the corporate limits of the City of
Marshalltown.


During the effective period of this Ordinance, no City department shall accept, process, approve,
or issue any Development Approval for a Data Center unless specifically authorized pursuant to
this Ordinance.


Section 3. Applicability.

This Ordinance shall apply to:

    1. New Data Centers proposed within the City of Marshalltown; and
    2. The Substantial Expansion, redevelopment, or conversion of existing structures or uses for
        Data Center purposes.


This Ordinance shall not prevent ordinary repair, maintenance, or replacement work necessary to
protect public health, safety, or welfare at a lawfully existing facility, provided such work does not
constitute the establishment, expansion, or conversion of a facility into a Data Center.
Section 4. Pending Applications.


This moratorium shall apply to applications that have not received final City approval as of the
effective date of this Ordinance, except to the extent the City Attorney determines that an applicant
has acquired vested rights under applicable law.


Section 5. Exceptions.


The City Council may authorize an exception to this Ordinance by resolution when it determines
that such exception is necessary to:


A. Protect public health, safety, or welfare;
B. Comply with applicable state or federal law;
C. Avoid substantial injustice; or
D. Address a unique circumstance where strict application of this Ordinance would result in an
unreasonable hardship or otherwise be contrary to the public interest.


Section 6. Effective Date and Duration.


The provisions of this Ordinance shall take effect upon passage and publication as provided by
law and shall remain in full force and effect until November 23, 2026, unless earlier repealed,
extended, or otherwise modified by action of the City Council.


The City Council may extend the effective period of this Ordinance one time, by resolution, for a
period not to exceed sixty (60) additional days if the City Council determines that additional time
is necessary to complete review of potential amendments to the City's Comprehensive Plan,
Zoning Ordinance, development regulations, or other applicable policies relating to Data Centers.


Any extension authorized pursuant to this Section shall identity the extended expiration date of
the moratorium and shall not be constmed as authorizing an indefinite continuation of the
moratorium without further legislative action by the City Council.


Section 7. Violations.


Any person, corporation, partnership, or other entity that submits, attempts to submit, constructs,
establishes, expands, or operates a Data Center in violation of this Ordinance shall be deemed in
violation of this Ordinance.


Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.


Violations of this Ordinance shall constitute a municipal infraction and shall be subject to the
penalties established by the City ofMarshalltown Code of Ordinances and applicable Iowa law.
Section 8. Repealer.


All previous ordinances or parts of such ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this
Ordinance are hereby repealed for the effective period of this Ordinance.


Section 9. Severability Clause.


If any section, provision, or part of this Ordinance shall be adjudged to be invalid or
unconstitutional, such adjudication shall not affect the validity of the Ordinance as a whole, or any
section thereof, not adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.


Passed this ^^- day of A ^vs^ , 2026, and signed this W^ day of_fi^^__, 2026.
                               ^,—, -.-., _„ ^^»» „„„ ^_ „„, „ • "^' —'

                                                    CITY OF MARSJfALLTOWN, IOWA

                                                             /^^
                                                    Mike Ladehoff, Mayor

                                                    ATTEST:
                                                       /^tiu^|4-^-fc^
                                                    Alicia Hunter, CMC, City Clerk



I, Alicia Hunter, City Clerk of the City ofMarshalltown, Iowa, do hereby certify that the foregoing
ORDINANCE was passed and approved by the City Council of the City of Marshalltown, Iowa,
on the 5l0~ day of A^s^v^- » 2026, and was published in the Marshalltown Times-
Republican, a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Marshalltown, Iowa, on the y\^
day of ^UK^ 2026.

   /^Cl^-Hi^y^- _ Alicia Hunter, City Clerk
