AN ORDINANCE OF MONROE COUNTY, GEORGIA PROVIDING THAT THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
ORDINANCE BE AMENDED AT THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
MONROE COUNTY, HELD ON APRIL                 , 2026.


WHEREAS, Monroe County, Georgia has experienced a great deal of interest in the
development of data centers within the County; and,
WHEREAS, the Monroe County Board of Commissioners finds that the regulations the County
has regarding data center developments, including the Unified Development Ordinance, need to
be amended to better protect the public interest and welfare; and,
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners and the Planning Commission have conducted duly
published public hearings on such text amendments; and.
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners find that it is in the best interest of the public welfare
of Monroe County, Georgia that the Unified Development Ordinance be amended as follows;


NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED, AND IT HEREBY IS ORDAINED, by virtue of the
authority vested in the Board of Commissioners of Monroe County, Georgia, that the Unified
Development Ordinance of Monroe County shall be amended as follows:


                                         SECTION ONE
       The Unified Development Ordinance of Monroe County is hereby amended as follows:


A.     Section 2.02.02 of the Monroe County Unified Development Ordinance, entitled “TABLE
OF PERMITTED USES” is hereby amended such that the row for Data Center shall be marked as
“SU” for Special Use in the column for the M-1 zoning classification. Data Centers shall not be
permitted in any other zoning district, except as provided herein.


B.     Section 4.02.23 of the Monroe County Unified Development Ordinance titled “Data
Center” is hereby restated as follows:


4.02.23     Data Center

4.02.23.01 Purpose
It is the Purpose of this regulation to provide development standards for the sitting, development
and construction of Data Centers.

4.02.23.02     Development Standards

A.      Data Center Development. A Data Center Development shall mean and refer to the
entire contiguous tract of land presented for development as a Data Center.

B.     Height Regulations. Buildings shall not exceed a height of seventy-five (75) feet,
measured from structure pad level. Height limitations shall not apply to accessory structures
such as water towers, conveyor belts and other incidental and uninhabited structures.

C.    Front yard setback: Fifty (50) Feet.

D.     Side yard setback Fifty (50) feet.

E.     Rear yard setback: Fifty (50) feet.
F.     Minimum lot frontage: One hundred ten (110) feet adjoining a street.

G.     Minimum lot width at the building line: One hundred ten (110) feet.

H.     Minimum lot acreage: Nine Hundred (900) acres

I.      Minimum data center structure setback and buffer requirement: In addition to
required setbacks, all data center buildings shall be setback a minimum of 500 feet from any
property line. Additionally, a vegetative buffer at least 200 feet wide shall be contained within
the setback and, where a natural vegetative buffer exists, at least 100 feet of the natural buffer
shall be retained in its natural condition.

J.    Air conditioning units and HVAC systems. Air conditioning units and HVAC systems
should be thoroughly screened from view from the public right-of-way from adjacent properties
by using buildings, walls fencing, roof elements or landscaping. This requirement shall not apply
where the equipment is more than 100 feet from adjacent property lines.

K.      Front building façade. The front building façade of all principal buildings shall be
oriented toward street fronts or adjacent arterial street fronts. This requirement shall not apply if
the front of the building is greater than 500 feet from the public right right-of- way or not visible
from the public right-or-way.

L.     Accessory Structures. Accessory Structures shall be subject to the general provisions of
the UDO, provided that if they are to be located outside of the setbacks and buffers provided
above, they shall not be subject to the location requirements of Section 5.02.02. Further,
notwithstanding other provisions of the UDO, guard houses and secured entry features shall be
permitted at public road entrances.
M.      Exclusion for Interior Setbacks and Buffers. Required setbacks and buffers shall only
apply to external property boundaries with other properties not part of the Data Center
Development.

N     Road. Private roads are permitted within the Data Center Development. They shall be
designed and built subject to the design guideline for county public roads.

O       Utilities.

     1. The Data Center Development is required to have access to public water and sewer, and
        shall not use private wells for water resources.

     2. All operational power shall be provided by a regulated public utility. Electric service to
        the facility shall be provided at the transmission level (greater than or equal to 115 kV),
        unless an exemption is granted by the County Utility Director due to system limitations
        or redundancy requirements. The use of permanent or semi-permanent diesel or gas-
        powered generators as the primary source of power is strictly prohibited. Backup
        generators are permitted only for emergency and system testing purposes.

P.       Generator Standards.

     1. Only Tier 4 final emission-compliant generators shall be permitted on site.

     2. All generators must be fully enclosed within the principal structure or within a purpose-
        built enclosure strategically integrated into the building footprint.

     3. Routine testing of generators shall be restricted to normal business hours (10:00 AM to
        4:00 PM, Monday through Friday). Except Holidays.

     4. A third-party acoustical noise study shall be submitted to the Monroe County Community
        Development Department prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.

     5. Generator operations, including testing, shall not exceed 65 decibels (dBA) as measured
        at the property line. With the exception of short-term emergency power outages.

Q       Lighting. The data center operator shall present a lighting plan showing a design and
operation of lighting that will be protective of the nighttime skyline of the neighborhood and
prevent lighting nuisances to surrounding properties and the public right of way as part of the
land disturbance process. A County Public Works Representative will tentatively approve the
plan. Final approval will occur once all lights can be turned on and a visual inspection is
completed. The parking lot must be paved, and all lighting must be compliant with the approved
lighting plan submitted for the project. The lighting plan and parking lot details must be
submitted to public works.

R     Sound. The operation of a Data Center Development shall not produce sound that
exceeds 65 decibels, measuring at the adjacent external property boundary between the Data
Center Development and any property line. Six (6) months from the issuance of a Certificate of
Occupancy for each building, the County may obtain sound studies or require the data center
operator to provide a sound study to confirm that the operation is compliant. If the data center
operation is found not to be in compliance with this subsection, then the County may issue a
notice of violation to operator which may direct that action be taken to remedy the violation
within 30 days of service of the notice of violation. If the data center operation fails to come into
compliance within 30 days following service of the notice of violation, then enforcement action
may be taken by the zoning administrator pursuant to section 10.04.00 of the UDO.



T.     Conflicts. In the event of any conflict between this section 4.02.23 and other provisions
of the UDO, this section shall govern.



                                           SECTION TWO
                                  LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
A.      Severability.
        This Ordinance and each section and subsection thereof are hereby declared to be
independent divisions and subdivisions and, not withstanding any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any provision of said
Ordinance, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or provisions and the application of such sections and provisions to any
person or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid shall not be affected thereby,
and it is hereby declared that such sections and provisions would have been passed
independently of such section or provision so known to be invalid. Should any procedural aspect
of this Ordinance be invalidated, such invalidation shall not affect the enforceability of the
substantive aspects of this Ordinance.
B.      Conflicting Code Provisions Repealed.
        All ordinances or parts of ordinances specifically in conflict with this Ordinance are
hereby expressly repealed.
D.    Effective Date.
      This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force as of the date of its adoption, the public
welfare of Monroe County demanding.


          Adopted this        day of                               , 2026.


MONROE COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS


BY:


______________________________________
ALAN GIBBS, Chairman




ATTEST:


_______________________________________
JANET ABBOTT, County Clerk
