 The Brooks County Board of Commissioners met for its Regular Monthly Meeting on Monday, August 3, 2026,
 at 5:00 p.m., in the Commissioners Chambers at the Brooks County Courthouse, located at 610 South
 Highland Road, Quitman, GA. Commissioners present were: Mrs. Myra Exum, Chair, Mr. James Maxwell, Vice
 Chair; Mr. Patrick Folsom; Mr. Willie Cody; and Mr. Lee Larko. Others present were Mr. Buddy Johnson, County
 Administrator; Ms. Patricia Williams, County Clerk; Ms. Janice Jarvis, Finance Director; Mr. Jason Kemp,
 County Attorney; and various residents.

 I. PUBLIC HEARING - NONE

II. CALL TO ORDER – Madam Chair called the meeting to order at 5:00pm.
    A. Prayer – Mr. Rodney Tenery, Brooks County Ministerial Association, led all in attendance in prayer.
    B. Pledge of Allegiance – Brooks County 4-Hers – Abby Haineault and Archer Cannon led all in
    attendance in the pledge of allegiance.

III. COMMISSIONER BUSINESS PRESENTATION - NONE

IV. CONSENT AGENDA – One Motion for Approval on All Items
    A. Board Approval of Prior Meeting Minutes
    1) CA019-2026 – Regular Business Meeting – June 1, 2026
    2) CA020-2026 – Special Called Meeting/Work Session – June 29, 2026
   The motion passed unanimously to approve the prior meeting minutes for June 2026, on the motion by
   Mr. Cody, and seconded by Mr. Folsom.

V. FORMAL ACTION REQUESTS – Commissioners Discussion with Action – (Johnson)
   A. Approve/Disapprove/Other Official Actions
   1) FA061-2026 – Planning Commission – Board Appointment – Mrs. Linda Gosier was reappointed to
  the Planning Commission for another five-year term on a motion by Mr. Folsom, Mr. Maxwell seconded,
  the vote passed unanimously. The term will expire June 30, 2031.

  2) FA062-2026 – Department of Family & Children Services (DFCS) – Board Appointment – Mr.
  Maxwell made the motion to reappoint Mr. Nick Hampton to the DFCS Board for another term,
  seconded by Mr. Cody. Term will expire June 2031.

  3) FA063-2026 – Resolution – Technology Fee – Superior Court – During the work session, County
  Attorney presented a Resolution for Technology Fee for Clerk of Superior Court for the Board’s review.
  Similar fees have been set for Probate and Magistrate Court. Mr. Larko made a motion to approve the
  Resolution for the Technology Fee for fines and fees for multiple courts for the Clerk of Court, that will
  be reflected in the Resolution, and the resolution number will be added, Mr. Folsom seconded. The
 Resolution will go to Legislation.

  4) FA064-2026 – FLOST IGA –


       Regular Meeting                       July 6, 2026                                       Page 1 of 3
      4) FA052-2026 – Airport Authority Appointment – The Board unanimously approved the
      appointment of James Warren to fill vacancy on Brooks County Airport Authority, on the motion by
      Mr. Maxwell, and seconded by Mr. Cody.

     5) FA053-2026 - Pumpers to be Approved as Surplus – Chief Weeks – Requested to surplus
     three vehicles: 1985 Oshkosh Tanker (broken, to be sold), 1995 Freightliner Rescue Truck (not in
     use, to be sold), 1986 GMC Tanker (pending evaluation for possible road department use). Two
     tankers will be declared surplus: 1985 Oshkosh Tanker and 1995 Freightliner Rescue, 1986 GMC
     Tanker will be determined by Administrator after review, approved on the motion by Mr. Folsom and
     Mr. Larko seconded.

  VI. REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES & DEPARTMENTS – (5 MINUTES)
      A. Board of Tax Assessors – Wayne Waldron, Chief Tax Appraiser – Appeared to provide
      information to the Board on the new format for annual property notices, stating they are clearer and
      less confusing and exemption estimates included. The fire fee will be incorporated into the millage
      rate. Homestead exemptions can be applied for during the 45-day appeal period. Mailing of the
      notices will occur by June 19, 2026. After which, phone calls may start, and when they do,
      Commissioners can direct citizen questions to the Tax Assessor’s Office.

 VII. UNFINISHED BUSINESS - NONE

VIII. NEW BUSINESS – (Johnson)
      1) NB002-2026 – Pumpers to be Approved as Surplus – Chief Weeks - Approved as formal action
       FA053-2026 above.

IX. PUBLIC COMMENTS – (2 MINUTES) – (Requests must be prior to the work session) - NONE




  X. ADMINISTRATION/ELECTED OFFICIALS UPDATES
     A. County Administration Updates
         • Clarified that the county cannot apply for grants on behalf of the City of Quitman due to legal
            restrictions.
         • FY2026-2027 Budget is available for public review; final adoption scheduled for June 29th.
         • County is on emergency spending only until the new budget is adopted.
         • SPLOST failed in the recent election; current funding ends December 2026. We will have to
            wait a year before the referendum can be placed back on the ballot; during that time, we will
            lose funding. There has been misinformation about the use of the SPLOST funds.
         • The impact of SPLOST loss affects future community projects.
     B. Commissioners
      Regular Meeting     Notes/Comments    July 6, 2026                                      Page 2 of 3
          • Lee Larko (District 1) – Commented on how there is misinformation about how the Board
             functions; there is nothing self-serving on the Board; we are 100% transparent. If anyone
              has questions, give him a call, he will be happy to answer questions; rather than rely on
              misinformation.
          •   Patrick Folsom (District 2) – Concurred with Mr. Larko regarding transparency on the
              Board. Commended the department heads, EMS and fire department partnerships.
          •   Willie Cody (District 3) – Also concurred with previous statements regarding transparency.
              He encouraged the public to attend meetings and ask questions directly, rather than relying
              on social media or misinformation.
          •   Myra Exum, Chair (District 4) – Reminded everyone of upcoming July 4th community event
              planned at the courthouse with music, entertainment, laser light show, etc. reminded of
              hurricane season beginning; and prayers for community safety. Stated thankful for the rain
              and hope it continues. Hope we can continue to have budget retreats in the future.
              Informed the public that they cannot campaign for SPLOST. The loss will be missed, and it
              will hurt
          •   James Maxwell, Vice (District 5) – Commended Brother Pitt on the invocation prayer.
              Advised the public to disconnect from Washington, DC and focus on Brooks County.

XI. EXECUTIVE SESSION - NONE

XII. ADJOURNMENT
      Mr. Maxwell moved to adjourn the regular meeting at 5:56 pm; Mr. Cody seconded.

      Mrs. Myra Exum, Chair
      Mr. James (Buddy) Johnson, County Administrator
      Ms. Patricia Williams, County Clerk




      Regular Meeting                       July 6, 2026                                     Page 3 of 3
