      za=
                     Regulor Meeling of lhe Moyor ond City Council
<l
c
  |# q*,                      City of Boll Ground, Georgio
                            Boll Ground City Holl | 7:00 P.M.

                                       MINUTES
                                    Augusl 13,2026
     Item I : Meeting Colled to Order by Moyor Nelson of ZPM

           Council Present: Scott Bornes, Tony Stoncil, Vicki Benefield, Kristine
           Rogers, ond Annette Homiller.

           Stoff Present: Ashley Byrd, Donno Englond, Dorlene Pendley, Polmer
           Rogers, Logon Witter, Joey lngrom, Dovid Deon, ond Cory DeBord.

     Item 2: lnvocotion led by Postor, Tim Pulver & Pledge of Allegionce led by
           Moyor Nelson.

     Item 3: Presentotions, Proclomotions, ond Appeoronces- None

     Item 4: Adoption of the Agendo

           Councilmember Benefield mode o motion to opprove the ogendo
           with the removol of ltem Bo. Consider First Reoding of Annexotion
           Cose #2025-A-05 - Applicont: Lee Lusk ond Bb. Consider First
           Reoding of Rezoning Cose #2025-R-05 - Applicont: Lee Lusk
           of the request of the opplicont, Seconded by Councilmember
           Rogers.

           Motion unonimously opproved.

     Item 5: Public Comments- Thomqs Weover, Bill Monning, Greg Edgor,
     Dennis Holt, Heidi McConn, Dono Romiez-Molino, ond Wyott Holcomb.

     Item 5: Approvol of the July 9, 2026, Regulor Council Meeting Minutes

           Councilmember Bornes mode o motion to opprove the July 9, 2026,
           Regulor Meeting Minuies, Seconded by Councilmember Benfield.

           Motion unonimously opproved

     Item 7: Old Business- None

     Item B: New Business

        o. Consider First Reoding of Rezoning Cose #2026-R-02 - Applicont:
           Nicole Hirshowitz
                                                                      I lPoge
    Councilmember Stoncil mode o motion to opprove the First
    Reoding of Rezoning Cose #2026-R-02 - Applicont: Nicole
    Hirshowitz, Seconded by Councilmember Homiller.
    Motion Foiled with o 2-3 vote.
    ln fovor: Councilmembers Stoncil & Homiller
    Opposed: Councilmembers Bornes, Benefield, ond Rogers.

    Councilmember Homiller mode o motion to opprove the First
    Reoding of Rezoning Cose #2026-R-02 - Applicont: Nicole Hirshowitz
    os presented by stoff, Seconded by Councilmember Stoncil.
    Motion Foiled with o 2-3 vote.
    ln Fovor: Councilmembers Homiller & Stoncil.
    Opposed: Councilmembers Bornes, Benefield, ond Roges.

    Councilmember Bornes mode o motion to deny the First Reoding of
    Rezoning Cose #2026-R-02 - Applicont: Nicole Hirshowitz, Seconded
    by Councilmember Benefield.
    Motion opproved with o 3-2 vote.
    ln Fovor: Councilmember Bornes, Benefield, ond Rogers.
    Opposed: Councilmembers Stoncil & Homiller.

b. Consider Borrel House Street Sounds Equipment Controct
    Councilmember Rogers mode o motion to opprove the Borrel
    House Street Sounds Equipment Controct, Seconded by
    Councilmember Homiller.

    Motion unonimously opproved.

C   Consider Cherokee County Fire Tox Rote

    Councilmember Stoncil mode o motion to opprove the Cherokee
    County Fire Tox Rote (3.023), Seconded by Councilmember Rogers.

    Motion unonimously opproved

d. Zoning Boord of Appeols Appointment
    Councilmember Homiller suggested oppointing Shelby Ebert to fill
    the seot of Steponie Joyner for the remoinder of her term until
    Jonuory 2027.

    Councilmember Bornes mode o mofion to opprove the
    oppointment of Shelby Ebert, Seconded by Councilmember Rogers.
                                                            2lPoge
      Motion unonimously opproved.

  e. Consider Doto Center Applicotion Morotorium
      Councilmember Stoncil mode o motion to opprove the Doto
      Center Applicotion Morotorium, Seconded by Councilmember
      Bornes.

      Motion unonimously opproved.

  f. Consider Dedicoting Stoff Time to Cleon Up the CC-T Permitted Use
     Toble

      Councilmember Stoncil to dedicote stoff time to cleon up the
      permitted use toble for CC-T, Seconded by Councilmember
      Benefield.

      Motion unonimously opproved

      (This item wos odded of the request of Councilmember Stoncil
      during the discussion ond vote for ltem Bo. )

Item 9: Announcements by City Monoger- Provided.

Item l0: Executive Session (lf Needed)- None.

Item i l: Council Comments- Provided

Item l2: Adjournment

      Councilmember Rogers mode o motion of 7:48 PM to odjourn,
      Seconded by Councilmember Stoncil.

      Motion unonimously opproved.


APPROVED THE \O        DAY OF
                                               -LA)A.



 ennis Nelson, Moyor                  Koylyn      City Clerk




                                                               3l Poge
