APPLING COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
CALLED MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP MINUTES
August 4, 2026 @ 4:00 P.M.

CALL TO ORDER/WELCOME/IN VOCATION/PLEDGE
Appling County Board of Commissioners held a called meeting on Tuesday, August 4" , 2026
at 4:00 PM in the Commissioners? meeting room of the Courthouse Annex.

The meeting was called to order by Chairman Leslie Burch and he welcomed all those in attendance.

Commissioner Edwards gave the invocation and Carroll Weaver led the group in the pledge. Present were

County Clerk Robyn Evans.

APPROVAL OF AGENDA

Commissioner Kent made a motion to approve the agenda; Commissioner Barnes seconded; unanimously
approved,

NEW BUSINESS/ACTION ITEMS

FY°2027 County Budget Worksho

County Manager Lovett shared that a copy of the budget had yet been presented to the Board but they were
provided a copy of the budget worksheets, immediately before the meeting. He started with review of the
Recreation Department; noting Capitol Projects, lighting and fencing. After discussion amongst the Board and
Recreation Director, Timmy McGuirt, the projects were estimated at $600,000-$700,000; noting the lighting
would be a 30-year investment and possibly cut electricity costs in half. McGuirt mentioned the fencing would be
replaced and field sizes reduced; equipment needs would include new mowers.

County Manager Lovett shared with the Board, he’d met with Tax Commissioner and Tax Assessor, whom
reported a $500,000 deficit in revenues due to the new House Bill and appeals for property taxes.

Lovett proceeded by moving to the Road Department, noting the following equipment needs: two (2) ditchers,
one (1) motor grader (part of the five-year rotation cycle), one (1) 309 to cut highways, and a John Deere loader.
Lovett reminded the Board that a little over $500,000 of Transportation Investment Act (TIA) discretionary funds
was utilized in last year’s budget for purchasing equipment. He stated he was not sure of the TIA funds balance
at this time but the Board asked to use same, if possible.

Sheriff's Departments, including the Jail and E-911 Communications Center, were discussed next. Lovett stated
the figures shown on the worksheets reflected the Sheriff's request of a ten percent (10%) increase in salaries. ;
Sheriff also requested that “drug operations” be increased to $10,000. Discussion was held amongst the Board in
regards to the ten percent increase and ensuring equality across every department.

County Manager Lovett allowed Linton DeLoach, Fire Chief, to speak in regards to the volunteer fire ;
departments. DeLoach shared that each department currently receives $2000/quarter from the County for repairs,
upkeep, electricity, supplies and fuel. He stated that in the past, there was an unstated rule that if repair invoices
were in excess of $500, they would be covered by the County. DeLoach shared concerns that the current budget
would not be sufficient with rising costs in all areas, including fuel. He shared the need for equipment to be
purchased more often and not purchase very old equipment; citing the newest truck they have is twenty-three (23)
years old. DeLoach and Commissioner Kent mentioned grant monies available to fire departments; a brand-new
fire truck is estimated at $400,000.



{

where this falls and start sourcing needs and making plans. He also, shared that fire suits and Self-Contained
Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) equipment are both good for ten (10) years. Further discussion was held in regards
to County-wide communications and possible other vendors that could satisfy all needs.

County Manager Lovett shared that he’d created a separate page for the ambulances. Discussions were held in
regards to the County furnishing ambulances and insuring them, owning the Emergency Medical Services (EMS)
licensing, but the Hospital operates them and receives the money from the operations. Commissioner Sellers
asked if it would be more cost effective if the County managed these services.

With time restraints of the regular monthly meeting at 5:30 PM, the budget meeting was adjourned at 5:15 PM.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
None

COUNTY MANAGER’S REPORT
None at this time.

CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS
None

ADJOURN
There being no further business or discussion, the meeting was adjourned at 5:15 PM.

~

Robyn(O, Evans, County Clerk * Leslie Burch, Chairman

TEE
on%,
£9

COUNTY SEAL



APPLING COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
August 4", 2026 @ 5:30 P.M.

CALL TO ORDER/WELCOME/INVOCATION/PLEDGE
Appling County Board of Commissioners held the regular monthly meeting on Tuesday, August 4", 2026
at 5:30 PM in the Commissioners’ meeting room of the Courthouse Annex.

The meeting was called to order by Chairman Leslie Burch and he welcomed all those in attendance.

Carroll Weaver gave the invocation and Amiee Weaver led the group in the pledge. Present were Chairman
Leslie Burch; Vice Chairman Chad Kent; Commissioners Randy Sellers, Daryl Edwards, Jakharis Jones, and
Ricky Barnes. Also, present were County Manager Reid Lovett, County Attorney Tracy Brown and County Clerk
Robyn Evans.

APPROVAL OF AGENDA
With the addition of “Item D — Set Budget Workshop”, Commissioner Edwards made a motion to approve the
agenda; Commissioner Sellers seconded; unanimously approved.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Meeting minutes, for the Regular meeting July 21", 2026, were approved on a motion by Commissioner Sellers;
seconded by Commissioner Kent; and unanimously approved.

PRESENTATIONS/SPECIAL GUEST(S)/ANNOUNCEMENTS
None

OLD BUSINESS

Intergovernmental Agreement Collection of Ad Valorem Taxes — City of Baxley

The agreement for Tax Commissioner, Lacey Leggett to perform these services, for a fee of $19,000 annually,
was approved on a motion by Commissioner Edwards; seconded by Commissioner Kent; unanimously approved.

NEW BUSINESS/ACTION ITEMS
FY’2027 Public Defender Indi gent Defense Services Agreement

Annual agreement for indigent defense services was reviewed, with an increase of $64,764.13 annually.
Commissioner Sellers made a motion to approve; Commissioner Kent seconded; unanimously approved.

FY’2027 County Employee Benefits Renewal .
County Manager Lovett shared the following service providers were all willing to renew employee benefits with
no increase in costs or change in coverage, for the period September 1, 2026 thru August 31, 2027.

United Healthcare (Health coverage) $ 4,228,262.64
Humana Dental (High Plan) $ 60,372.60
Humana Dental (Low Plan) $ 47,127.72
Humana Vision $ 14,400.96

Commissioner Jones made a motion to spore the renewal of employee benefits as shown above; Commissioner
Barnes seconded; unanimously approved.

Land Use Ordinance . ;
County Attorney Brown shared that after much review of the current ordinances, there is not a land use ordinance
in place, other than permitting for electrical (only used by Satilla REMC). The Board was fea a resolution to
review, recognizing Georgia Law and Appling County’s location within the Georgia Coastal Plain region. Also,
pointing out this region relies heavily upon groundwater resources from the Florida Aquifer system, which is
significantly managed for conservation efforts and long-term sustainability.



Set Budget Workshop ae
County Manager Lovett shared that a date needed to be set for another Budget Workshop. Commissioner Kent

made a motion for August 18, 2026 at 5:30 PM; Commissioner Jones seconded; unanimously approved.

County Attorney Brown shared that we’d received a request to utilize our logo on promotional materials from
Roberts Civil Engineering. Commissioner Sellers made a motion to deny this request; Commissioner Kent
seconded; unanimously approved.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Commissioner Edwards made a motion to close regular session and enter into executive session for the purpose of
discussing personnel; Commissioner Barnes seconded; unanimously approved.

Commissioner Kent made a motion to close executive session and enter into regular session; Commissioner
Barnes seconded; unanimously approved.

Attorney Brown stated a need to vote on the automatic renewal of the County Manager contract, at the same terms
and salary. Commissioner Edwards made a motion to approve the renewal; Commissioner Barnes seconded;
unanimously approved.

PUBLIC INPUT

Dap Services, Peggy Smith Burton, Custodial & Litter Pickup Contracts

Peggy Smith Burton asked when the litter pickup contract was going to be bid for clean up of County roads and
custodial services for County buildings. County Manager Lovett shared this could be discussed at the budget
workshop on August 18, 2026.

COUNTY MANAGER’S REPORT
None.

CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS
None.

ADJOURN
There being no further business or discussion, the meeting was adjourned at 6:30 PM.

Leslie Burch, Chairman



APPLING COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
CALLED MEETING/BUDGET WORKSHOP MINUTES
August 18, 2026 @ 5:30 P.M.

CALL TO ORDER/WELCOME/INVOCATION/PLEDGE
Appling County Board of Commissioners held a called meeting on Tuesday, August 18", 2026
at 5:30 PM in the Commissioners’ meeting room of the Courthouse Annex.

The meeting was called to order by Chairman Leslie Burch and he welcomed all those in attendance.
Commissioner Sellers gave the invocation and Coroner Henry Jones led the group in the pledge. Present were
Chairman Leslie Burch; Vice Chairman Chad Kent; Commissioners Randy Sellers, Jakharis Jones, Daryl
Edwards and Ricky Barnes. Also, present were County Manager Reid Lovett, County Attorney Tracy Brown and
County Clerk Robyn Evans.

APPROVAL OF AGENDA
Commissioner Kent made a motion to approve the agenda; Commissioner Barnes seconded; unanimously
approved.

NEW BUSINESS/ACTION ITEMS
FY’2027 County Budget Workshop
County Manager Lovett began review of the budget worksheets that reflected Revenues.

Coroner Henry Jones spoke to the Board, presenting justifications for his request of an increased budget. He
stated there is normally, an average of seventy-seven (77) deaths in the County, annually. This year, there’s been
an increase; through July, a total of fifty-seven (57) deaths; adding that in certain cases the time spent on
investigations can be very lengthy. Investigations may include research to identify bodies, transports and expenses
at the crime lab, and more. Jones requested the purchase of two (2) body cameras and chargers for utilization “on
scene” of a death investigation; recording parties present or anyone interviewed that has knowledge of the event.
This information can then be uploaded directly into the case files in the Coroners’ Office Death Investigation
Management System (CODIMS). He also requested digital cameras and digital thermometers — to help aid in the
investigations and better serve the community.

Jones also added that by Georgia legislature statute, Coroners are paid $175 per death in Appling County,
regardless of the countless hours spent investigating, researching and processing same. Coroners/Deputy
Coroners utilize their own cell phones, automobiles, money for gas to travel, etc. They try to engage in all free
training but certain ones are mandated and must be paid by themselves or the County. He asked if the County
could possibly consider increasing the pay from $175 to $250 per death.

County Manager Lovett ensured the Board that salaries shown on the spreadsheet, for the Sheriff's departments,
reflected a three percent (3%) increase. He added there were no changes in the following department budgets:
Judicial Operations, Heritage Center, Public Buildings, and Sanitation. Increases for the Heritage Center and
Recreation Department include capitol project items. Lovett stated decreases in Administration and Emergency
Management Agency. County Shop budget is down due to seven vacant positions at this time. Extension Services
was increased for a truck replacement; Parks and Recreation increased due to spraying algae at Lake Mayers and
Dunns Lake.

Lovett recommended a “roll-back” of 0.29% of the millage rate and asked if the Board could set a date to approve
the rate. Commissioner Sellers made a motion for September 8, 2026 at 5:30 PM; Commissioner Kent seconded;
unanimously approved.



EXECUTIVE SESSION
None

COUNTY MANAGER’S REPORT
None at this time.

CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS
None

ADJOURN
There being no further business or discussion, the meeting was adjourned at 6:25 PM.

Cia SF died Seance

Robyn 0. )Evans, County Clerk Leslie Burch, Chairman

COUNTY SEAL

