                                       APPENDIX A – Unified Development Code
                                      ARTICLE 14. M-1 MANUFACTURING—LIGHT




                            ARTICLE 14. M-1 MANUFACTURING—LIGHT

Sec. 1401. Purpose.
M-1 zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve physically and aesthetically desirable areas in which
clean, low-intensity manufacturing activities may locate and be protected from the intrusion of incompatible land
uses. By having such areas available, both new and existing industries may operate and undertake expansion of
facilities with the least possible adverse effect on other types of activities which might be incompatible with
manufacturing. The elimination of non-manufacturing activities from M-1 districts benefits manufacturing
activities by removing some possible obstacles to their smooth operation and expansion.

Sec. 1402. Boundaries of M-1 districts.
The official map (Section 2301 of this ordinance) shows the boundaries of all M-1 districts within Pike County.
Article 23 also contains additional information concerning interpreting district boundaries, amending boundaries,
etc.

Sec. 1403. Permitted uses.
A.    The following principal uses are permitted in M-1 districts:
      1.   Commercial services and manufacturing activities related to farm or forest uses.
      2.   Manufacturing activity which does not cause injurious or obnoxious noise, vibrations, smoke, gas, fumes,
           odor, dust, fire hazard, or other objectionable conditions.
      3.   Wholesale and warehousing operation.
      4.   Building material yard which is entirely enclosed by a fence that is at least six (6) feet high and screens
           the yard from view.
      5.   Off-street parking lot or parking garage.
      6.   Armory.
      7.   Cabinet shop.
      8.   Cosmetic and pharmaceuticals manufacturing.
      9.   Distribution of products or merchandise.
      10. Dry cleaning or laundering establishment.
      11. Education or training facility.
      12. Electronic manufacturing and assembly.
      13. Plumbing shop, other contractor—Including open storage of materials when located in rear yard.
      14. Printing, publishing, reproducing establishment.
      15. Sign painting and fabricating shop.
      16. Local, state, or federal government buildings.



Pike County, Georgia, Code of Ordinances

                                                       Page 1 of 5
     17. College or university.
     18. Automobile and truck sales.
     19. Farmers' markets.
     20. Feed and seed stores.
     21. Heavy equipment sales, service or rental.
     22. Major automotive repair.
     23. Mini-warehouses and warehouses.
     24. Mobile home sales lots.
     25. Recreational vehicle sales and service.
     26. Tire retreading.
B.   The following principal uses are permitted as special use permits in M-1 districts:
     1.    Airport, heliport.
     2.    Tower or antenna meeting the standards and development criteria established in the Pike County
           Ordinance to Establish Standards for Telecommunications Antennas and Towers.
     3.    Utility substation meeting the following development standards:
           a.    Structures must be placed at least thirty (30) feet from all property lines.
           b.    Structures must be enclosed by a woven wire fence at least eight (8) feet high with bottom of
                 fence either flush with the ground or with a masonry footing.
           c.    No vehicles or equipment may be stored on the lot.
           d.    A buffer, as provided in section 405, must be maintained along the side and rear property lines.
     4.    Shooting range, indoor.
     5.    Data Centers
     a.   Minimum lot area of ten (10) acres is required for all data centers.
     b. There shall be established a 50-foot wide planted or natural buffer along the entire perimeter of the
        property where it is adjacent to any residentially zoned property. The County reserves the right to require
        additional plantings in a buffer deemed to be insufficient in plant materials to constitute a proper screen.
     c. All structures shall be setback a minimum of 100 feet from property lines and 500 feet from any habitable
        structures. There shall be a 150-foot buffer for all streams and all state buffers for wetlands shall be
        enforced.
     d. Applicants must provide a letter from all utility providers during the special use permit application
        process stating that adequate service is available for the proposed use or state what improvements are
        required to accommodate the proposed use. All upgrades/improvements shall be at the expense of the
        applicant/developer and completed prior to a certificate of occupancy is issued.
     e. All Data Centers shall be services by a public Water System. Private well shall be prohibited
     f. All cooling and ventilation equipment will operate on a closed-loop system.
     g. All Data centers shall be located on US Highway 41 or within a platted industrial park. In the case of a
        corner lot or a double frontage lot on US Highway 41, the Data Center may only be entered from the




                                                     Page 2 of 5
          State Highway of road frontage. No entrance shall be permitted on a county road except for internal road
          in a platted industrial park.
     h. Data Centers shall not produce sound that exceeds 65 decibels, measured at the adjacent external
          property boundary between the Data Center and a Residential Dwelling. At any time after the issuance of
          a Certificate of Occupancy for any building, the County may require the data center operator to provide a
          sound study to confirm that the operation is compliant. If the data center operation is found not to be in
          compliance with this subsection, then the County may issue a Notice of Violation to the operator which
          may direct that action be taken to remedy the violation within 30 days of service of the notice of
          violation. If the data center operation fails to come into compliance within 30 days following service of
          the notice of violation, then the Data Centers Certificate of Occupancy may be revoked.
     i. A decommissioning bond shall be required prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for all data
          centers in an amount to return the site back to its predevelopment condition as determined by an
          independent, third-party professional engineer licensed in this state of Georgia.
     j. All onsite generators must be contained within sounds barriers with acoustic damping features and only
        permitted in the side or rear yard areas. The testing of any generators may only be completed between
        the hours of 9:00 AM EST and 4:00 PM EST and the generators may only be used in the case of an
        emergency situation.
     k. All exterior lighting shall be designed and constructed with cutoff and fully shielded fixtures that direct
        light downward and into the interior of the property and away from adjacent roads and other properties.
     l. All battery systems shall be equipped with a dedicated fire suppression system designed to control
        thermal runway, fire and explosion hazards associated with the specific battery chemistry. Fire
        suppression systems shall comply with all state regulations and suppression systems shall be automatic,
        monitored and connected to an alarm system.
     m. Prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy the operator shall file an Emergency Response Plan
        with the Pike County Fire Department, EMA and Sheriff’s office containing the following:
              a.   A site map showing the location of all batteries, generators, fuel storage, electrical and
                   switchgear.
              b.   24-hour emergency contact information for on-site and corporate personnel.
              c.   Hazard identification of all energy storage materials, including safety data sheets.
              d.   Detailed shutdown, isolation, and ventilation procedures.
              e.   Firefighting and spill containment procedures specific to the battery chemistry used.
              f.   Evacuation routes, staging areas, and water supply plan for emergency responders.
              g.   Coordination protocol with the Pike County Fire Department, Sheriff’s Office and EMA.


C.   The following accessory uses are permitted in M-1 districts:
     1.     Those determined by the administrative officer to be customarily appurtenant to those uses permitted
            in this district.
     2.     Tower, domestic or antenna, domestic.
     3.     Shipping container, used in the normal course of business.
     4.     Shipping container, temporary.
     5.     Mobile food service unit, no more than three (3) consecutive days.




                                                      Page 3 of 5
D.        The following accessory uses are permitted as special use permits in M-1 districts:
          1.      Tower or antenna meeting the standards and development criteria established in the Pike County
                  Ordinance to Establish Standards for Telecommunications Antennas and Towers.
E.        All accessory uses must meet the following standards:
          1.      They may not be located closer than five (5) feet to any property line.
          2.      Accessory buildings and structures must be located at least ten (10) feet from the principal building on
                  the lot.
F.        Any use similar or compatible not listed within the permitted uses section will at the discretion of the Zoning
          Administrator be presented as a special use permit and follow the procedures for a special use permit.

Sec. 1404. Development standards for M-1 districts.
In addition to the development standards contained in Article 4 of this ordinance, the following standards are
required within M-1 districts:
               Minimum heated floor area for buildings:            None.
     A.
     B.        Minimum lot area:
               1. Unsewered areas:                                One (1) acre
               2. Sewered areas:                                  10,000 square feet
     C.        Minimum lot width:                                 One hundred (100) feet.
     D.        Minimum front-yard depth:                          Seventy (70) feet.
     E.        Minimum side-yard depth:                           Fifteen (15) feet.
     F.        Minimum rear-yard depth:                           Twenty-five (25) feet.
     G.        Maximum building height:                           Three (3) Stories



H.        Sight distance: Within thirty (30) feet of the pavement edge, plants cannot be of a type which will exceed a
          height of thirty (30) inches at maturity and/or a trunk diameter of forty (40) inches. There may be some
          flexibility in regard to the maximum trunk diameter when protected by a guardrail or some other suitable
          type barrier beyond thirty (30) feet from pavement edge. Almost any type of planted vegetation is
          permissible.
I.        Applicability to land and buildings: No building, structure or land may be used or occupied, and no building or
          structure or part of a building or structure may be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or
          structurally altered unless in conformity with all of the regulations specified for the district in which it is
          located.
J.        Every use must be on a lot: No building or structure may be erected or use established unless upon a lot as
          defined by this ordinance.
K.        Only one principal building per lot: Only one (1) principal building and its accessory buildings may be erected
          on any lot, except for planned developments or as otherwise provided.
L.        Open space not to be encroached upon: No open space may be encroached upon or reduced in any manner
          except in conformity with the yard, setback, off-street parking spaces, and other such required development
          standards contained in the ordinance. Shrubbery, driveways, retaining walls, fences, curbs, and buffers (see
          definition in Article 2) are not considered to be encroachments of yards. Open space areas as required by this
          ordinance must be permanently maintained as open space in accordance with the requirements of this
          ordinance.




                                                           Page 4 of 5
M.   Reduction of yards or lot area: Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, a lot existing at the time of
     passage of this ordinance may not be reduced, divided, or changed so as to produce a tract of land which
     does not comply with the minimum dimension or area requirements of this ordinance for the district in
     which it is located unless that reduction or division is necessary to provide land which is needed and
     accepted for public use.
N.   Lots with multiple frontage: In the case of a corner lot or double frontage lot, front yard setback
     requirements apply to all lot lines abutting a street.
O.   Landlocked lots: In the case of a landlocked lot (lot without direct access to a public street or road) lawfully
     existing as of the effective date of this ordinance, the property owner is entitled to one (1) building permit,
     as long as all of the following requirements are met:
     1.    No other principal building exists or is being constructed on the property.
     2.    No other valid building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this ordinance and is
           currently valid.
     3.    The property was and continues to be under single ownership since the effective date of this
           ordinance.
     4.    The property owner has acquired a thirty-foot easement to a city-, county-, or state-maintained street,
           and the easement has been duly recorded and made a part of the property deed.
     5.    In the event the property is divided, no additional permits will be issued.
P.   Flag (panhandle) lots are prohibited in the M-1 zoning district
Q.   Yards and other spaces: No part of a yard, other open space, off-street parking, or loading space required for
     another building may be included as a part of the yard, off-street parking, or loading space required for
     another building, except as specifically provided for in this ordinance.
R.   Substandard lots: Any lot existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance, which has an area or a width
     which is less than required by this ordinance, is subject to the following exceptions and modifications:
     1.    Single lots: When a lot has an area or frontage, which does not conform with the requirements of the
           district in which it is located but was a lot at the effective date of this ordinance, such a lot may be used
           for any use allowed in the zoning district in which it is located as long as all other requirements of this
           ordinance are met.
S.   Encroachment on public rights-of-way: No building, structure, service area, required off-street parking, or
     loading/unloading facility is permitted to encroach on public rights-of-way.
T.   Physical design standards: Minimum design standards for driveways, loading areas, and other such physical
     site improvements are contained in applicable development regulations of Pike County. Consult the
     administrative officer for specific requirements.
U.   Off-street parking and service requirements: Minimum standards for off-street parking and service
     requirements are contained in the Pike County Standard for Off-Street Parking (Article 27).
V.   Other applicable development regulations: Information concerning any other applicable development
     regulations may be obtained by consulting the administrative officer.
W.   Signs: Minimum design and location standards for signs are contained in the Pike County Sign Requirements
     (Article 25). Consult that article for specific requirements.
X.   Yards abutting railroads: Side yards and rear yards are not required adjacent to railroad rights-of-way.




                                                      Page 5 of 5
