                                                                                     Resolution No:2026-012
                                                                                     August 20, 2026


                                            RESOLUTION

                A RESOLUTION DECLARING A MORATORIUM ON THE
                 ACCEPTANCE OF APPLICATIONS RELATING TO THE
                ESTABLISHMENT OR EXPANSION OF DATA CENTERS.

       WHEREAS, the City of Bloomingdale from time to time reviews its ordinances to ensure that its
laws preserve the quality of life for citizens while imposing limited and effective regulations on certain
industrial and commercial uses that impact quality of life; and

       WHEREAS, the City of Bloomingdale intends to consider revisions to the Code designed to
protect existing access to power and water supply for the City’s residents.

       WHEREAS, by enactment of this moratorium the City of Bloomingdale Governing Authority does
not intend to disturb the operation of any data center that is operating lawfully on the date of adoption of this
moratorium.

       WHEREAS, the Governing Authority approved a Resolution establishing the Moratorium until
11:59 p.m. on February 16, 2027;

       WHEREAS, the City of Bloomingdale must take immediate and responsive action to protect the
interests of the City of Bloomingdale, and it is in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of City of Bloomingdale that no applications be accepted within the corporate limits of the City of
Bloomingdale for a time period up to February 16, 2027 if such applications relate to the establishment of
new data centers or the expansion of currently existing data centers, including any applications for special
land use permits, rezonings, land disturbance permits, building permits, business licenses, or certificates of
occupancy.

       WHEREAS, by enactment of this Resolution the City of Bloomingdale extends the Moratorium
until 11:59 p.m. on February 16, 2027, to establish terms and definitions and to consider appropriate
regulations for the health, safety, and welfare of the City’s residents and businesses.




                                                                                                          Page 1 of 3
                                                                               Resolution No:2026-012
                                                                               August 20, 2026


   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AND IT IS DECLARED BY THE CITY OF
                     BLOOMINGDALE, GEORGIA, AS FOLLOWS:

1. The moratorium imposed herein incorporates the findings and statements set forth in the preceding
   “Whereas” clauses and such clauses are made a part of this Resolution.

2. For the purposes of this Resolution, "data center” means a physical room, building, or facility that
   houses infrastructure for building, running, delivering or transmitting applications and services, or
   for storing and managing the data associated with those applications or services.

3. For a time period up to February 16, 2027 from the date of adoption of this Resolution,
   notwithstanding any provision of the Code to the contrary, there shall be a complete moratorium on
   the acceptance of any applications relating to the establishment of new data centers or the expansion
   of currently existing data centers, including any applications for special land use permits, rezonings,
   land disturbance permits, building permits, business licenses, or certificates of occupancy, in the
   incorporated limits of the City of Bloomingdale.

4. For a time period up to February 16, 2027 from the date of adoption of this Resolution,
   notwithstanding any provision of the Code to the contrary, no licenses or permits shall be granted or
   denied concerning the establishment of new data centers or the expansion of currently existing data
   centers, including special land use permits, rezonings, land disturbance permits, building permits,
   business licenses, or certificates of occupancy for such establishments, in the incorporated limits of
   the City of Bloomingdale.

5. This moratorium shall expire at 11:59 p.m. on February 16, 2027, unless shortened or extended by
   official action of the City of Bloomingdale.

6. The Planning and Development Department shall study the effects of data centers on the health,
   safety, and welfare of the City's residents and businesses.

7. Nothing in this Resolution shall prevent the continued operation of any existing data centers that is
   operating lawfully as of the date of enactment of this moratorium.

8. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or other portion of this Resolution, or its
   application to any person, entity or circumstance, is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
   unconstitutional or invalid, the remainder of the Resolution, or application of the provision to other
   persons, entities or circumstances, shall not be affected.

                                                                                                   Page 2 of 3
                                                                        Resolution No:2026-012
                                                                        August 20, 2026




ADOPTED by the City of Bloomingdale City Council, this                             day of

                       ,2026



                                                         Attest:


Dennis G. Baxter, Mayor                                  Jennifer Scholl, City Clerk




                                                                                            Page 3 of 3
