 The Brooks County Board of Commissioners met for its Regular Monthly Meeting on Monday, July 6,
 2026, at 5:00 p.m., in the Commissioners Chambers at the Brooks County Courthouse, located at 610
 South Highland Road, Quitman, GA. Commissioners present were: Mrs. Myra Exum, Chair, Mr. James
 Maxwell, Vice Chair; Mr. Patrick Folsom; Mr. Willie Cody; and Mr. Lee Larko. Others present were Mr.
 Buddy Johnson, County Administrator; Ms. Patricia Williams, County Clerk; Ms. Kim Daniels, Human
 Resources, Ms. Janice Jarvis, Finance Director; Mr. Jason Kemp, County Attorney; and various residents.

 I. PUBLIC HEARING - NONE
II. CALL TO ORDER – Madam Chair called the meeting to order at 5:00pm.
    A. Prayer – Mr. Rodney Tenery, Brooks County Ministerial Association, led all in attendance in
   prayer.
   B. Pledge of Allegiance – Brooks County 4-Hers – Abby Haineault and Archer Cannon led all in
   attendance in the pledge of allegiance.

III. COMMISSIONER BUSINESS PRESENTATION - NONE
     ​
IV. CONSENT AGENDA – One Motion for Approval on All Items
    A. Board Approval of Prior Meeting Minutes
    1) CA019-2026 – Regular Business Meeting – June 1, 2026
   2) CA020-2026 – Special Called Meeting/Work Session – June 29, 2026
  The motion passed unanimously to approve the prior meeting minutes for June 2026, on the
  motion by Mr. Cody, and seconded by Mr. Folsom.

V. FORMAL ACTION REQUESTS – Commissioners Discussion with Action – (Johnson)
   A. Approve/Disapprove/Other Official Actions
    1) FA061-2026 – Planning Commission – Board Appointment – Mrs. Linda Gosier was
  reappointed to the Planning Commission for another five-year term on a motion by Mr. Folsom, Mr.
  Maxwell seconded, the vote passed unanimously. The term will expire June 30, 2031.

  2) FA062-2026 – Department of Family & Children Services (DFCS) – Board Appointment – Mr.
  Maxwell made the motion to reappoint Mr. Nick Hampton to the DFCS Board for another term,
  seconded by Mr. Cody. Term will expire June 2031.

  3) FA063-2026 – Resolution – Technology Fee – Superior Court – During the work session, County
    Attorney presented a Resolution for Technology Fee for Clerk of Superior Court for the Board’s
 review.
   Similar fees have been set for Probate and Magistrate Court. Mr. Larko made a motion to approve
 the
   Resolution for the Technology Fee for fines and fees for multiple courts for the Clerk of Court, that
 will
   be reflected in the Resolution, and the resolution number will be added, Mr. Folsom seconded.
   The Resolution will go to Legislation.
       Regular Meeting                      July 6, 2026                                     Page 1 of 4
      4) FA064-2026 – FLOST IGA – The Board discussed placing a new 1% sales tax (FLOST) on the
       November ballot during the work session; and reviewed a draft copy prepared by County Attorney.
      The
      1% tax will offset property taxes for all landowners and businesses. It was agreed that the
      distribution
       method will be by the digest percentage. County Attorney will finalize the IGA with the digest
       percentages. The percentages determined are Brooks County: 80.91%, Quitman: 16.05%; Morven:
      1.86%; Barwick: 0.59%; Pavo: 0.6%. The Board unanimously approved the FLOST IGA to be
      placed on
       the November referendum ballot for voters to decide on the motion by Mr. Larko, seconded by Mr.
       Folsom. There was extended discussion addressing public misconceptions (especially on social
      media)
        about FLOST, clarifying that funds directly benefit taxpayers by rolling back property taxes,
      impacting
       both property owners and renters.

       There were two options: the LHOST and the FLOST, the county chose the FLOST because it
      benefits the
       Taxpayers by bringing personal tax down. The money does not go to any general fund account; it
      directly
      benefits taxpayers.

      5) FA065-2026 – Ordinance Codification Review – The Board approved moving forward with digital
      codification of county ordinances, streamlining updates and future amendments. It was noted that
      the meeting date for the Commissioners needs to be updated. Mr. Folsom motioned to approve
      moving forward with digital codification of Brooks County ordinances, Mr. Maxwell seconded the
      motion.

       6) FA066-2026 – Stanley Road Closure/Abandonment – This item was tabled during the June 1st
       meeting for further review and again during the June 29th work session. Madam Chair asked if any
       Commissioner wishes to move forward. No Commissioner motioned to proceed with the process of
       closing/abandoning Stanley Road. The issue was dropped and the formal action number retired.

​ ​      ​      ​      ​     ​     ​          7) FA067–2026 - Opioid Funding Request – Board of
Health – The Board of Health requested funding
       from the Opioid account. During the work session, Jessica Arnett presented a great presentation
for
          Regular Meeting                   July 6, 2026                                    Page 2 of 4
        proposed projects. On the motion by Mr. Maxwell, seconded by Mr. Larko, the Board approved
the opioid
      funding for the Board of Health in the amount of $35,403.75.

    8) FA068-2026 – Data Center Ordinance – During the work session, Administrator Johnson asked
  the
     Board to submit input as to what they want the ordinance to do for a future ordinance regulating
  data
      centers in Brooks County. Some of the issues the Board wanted the Ordinance to regulate is
  location,
     cooling systems, zoning, scale, lighting, noise, landscaping, square footage limitation, etc. Once
  the
     information is in hand; a template can be created to build the ordinance and a committee formed.
  The
    committee would consist of five members, including two Commissioners, to refine before adoption.
  The
    current moratorium on data centers remains in effect until December 31.

    VI. REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES & DEPARTMENTS – (5 MINUTES) - NONE
    VII. UNFINISHED BUSINESS - NONE


   VIII. NEW BUSINESS – (Johnson)
          1) Contract – Road Department – Road Maintenance and Support Services – Attorney Kemp
   prepared a redlined copy and a final copy of the Road Maintenance and Support Services Contract
   for JWA & Associates contract renewal. Only one bid was received and Administrator clarified that
   only one bid was received, not just opened. The contract was updated with minor changes, including
   compensation corrections and clarification on employee benefits. Mowing is not a part of the
   contract; the county retains its own mowing department. The Brooks County Road Maintenance
   and Support Services contract for JWA & Associates was approved with necessary changes on
   motion by Mr. Maxwell, and Mr. Cody seconded.

   IX. PUBLIC COMMENTS – (2 MINUTES) – (Requests must be prior to the work session)
      A.​ Charnissa Brown – Monthly Community Pop-up Market – Ms. Brown presented a proposal
   organizing monthly pop-up markets at the Farmers Market to support local vendors and youth
   entrepreneurship. Administrator Johnson advised that he would schedule a time to meet to
   collaborate with her to develop a calendar and plan.
       B.​ Chris Godfrey – Land Ownership and Equality – Mr. Godfrey postponed and will get on next
           month agenda.

         Regular Meeting                     July 6, 2026                                   Page 3 of 4
   C.​ a. Herb Mason – Trash Company – Send Letter to Residents When Trash Cans Should be
       Taken Off the Curb – Mr. Mason requested better communication for new residents regarding
       trash can ordinances. The Board acknowledged the need for improved resident orientation.
       b. Herb Mason – Morven not Paying for Fire Protection – Mr. Mason raised questions about
       Morven’s fire protection payments. The Board acknowledged that fire service arrangements
       will be discussed with Morven leadership.
 Administrator commended and thanked Mr. Mason for a job well done by the honor guard during
 the July 4th celebration.

X. ADMINISTRATION/ELECTED OFFICIALS UPDATES
  A. County Administration Updates
      ●​ Administrator Johnson explained the Commissioners’ structure, authority, and the role of
         the County Administrator (not a County Manager) to educate the public and address
         transparency concerns.
      ●​ Proposed working with the school district to install signs recognizing local athletic
         achievements at county entrances, pending Board approval and coordination with GDOT.

  B. Commissioners Notes/Comments
       ●​ Lee Larko (District 1) – No comment.
       ●​ Patrick Folsom (District 2) – Explained to Ms. Howard the process of maintaining grass
            in ditches, clarified right-of-way upkeep.
         ●​ Willie Cody (District 3) – Concurred with Administrator comments.
         ●​ Myra Exum, Chair (District 4) – Allowed Chief Tax Appraiser, Wayne Waldron, to
            commend the Board on sending residents to their office or advising calling with
            questions and to keep



            sending them. Will get with Mr. Lee at the School System regarding the signs
            recognizing local athletic achievements.
         ●​ James Maxwell, Vice (District 5) – Commented on community inclusivity and historical
            context in response to recent public discourse.

XI. EXECUTIVE SESSION - NONE
  ​
XII. ADJOURNMENT
      Mr. Maxwell moved to adjourn the regular meeting at 6:05 pm; Mr. Cody seconded.

      Mrs. Myra Exum, Chair
      Mr. James (Buddy) Johnson, County Administrator
      Ms. Patricia Williams, County Clerk


      Regular Meeting                   July 6, 2026                                    Page 4 of 4
