STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA

COUNTY OF KERSHAW

)
) ORDINANCE NO. 112.2025
)

AN ORDINANCE

AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON
ACCEPTANCE AND PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS FOR SUBDIVISION
APPROVALS OF GREATER THAN FIVE (5) RESIDENTIAL LOTS WITHIN THE
UNINCORPORATED AREA OF KERSHAW COUNTY AND INVOKING
APPLICATION OF THE PENDING ORDINANCE DOCTRINE.

Be it ordained by the Council of Kershaw County, South Carolina:

Section 1. Findings and Determinations.

The Council finds and determines that:

a)

b)

d)

Kershaw County Council is empowered to enact ordinances for the implementation and
enforcement of powers granted to Kershaw County Council pursuant to Sections 4-9-30(9) and
(17), S.C. Code Ann., as amended and to exercise such other powers as necessary to promote the
health, safety, and welfare of Kershaw County.

The Kershaw County Planning Commission (“Planning Commission”), pursuant to Sections
6-29-340(B)(2)(b) and 6-29-1130(A), S.C. Code Ann., is authorized to prepare and recommend
regulations to the Kershaw County Council for the subdivision or development of land.

On May 21, 2025, the Planning Commission, by a vote of (4-2) in favor, submitted a Resolution
to Kershaw County Council, pursuant to Section 6-29-520(B) S.C. Code Ann., recommending
that Kershaw County Council impose at least a one-hundred-eighty (180) day moratorium on
acceptance, review, processing, and granting of applications for approvals, permits, or
permissions related to the development of Major Subdivisions as defined in the Section 5:2.4-1 of
the ZLDR.

The Planning Commission noted that a significant number of residential lots have received
development approvals but are not yet built, with the Kershaw County Planning Department
having confirmed to County Council a total of approximately 1,440 approved but unbuilt
residential lots, and the Planning Commission has observed that residential growth is straining
County roads, schools, utilities, storm-water infrastructure, and public finances, risking service
shortfalls and increased tax burdens if growth continues unchecked.

Ordinance No. 112.2025
Page 1 of 4


8)

k)

The Planning Commission is in the process updating the Kershaw County Comprehensive Plan
2017-2027 (“Comprehensive Plan”) including, but not limited to, the Land-Use, Housing,
Community-Facilities, and Natural-Resources elements of the Comprehensive Plan, as required
by Section 6-29-510(E), S.C. Code Ann., and has expressed concern that the Comprehensive Plan
must address current residential growth pressures before additional large tracts of land are
irrevocably committed to residential development.

The Planning Commission has asserted that the current timeline for the Comprehensive Plan
review, update, and approval by Kershaw County and the subsequent timeline for the re-write
amendment of the Kershaw County Unified Code of Zoning & Land-Development Regulations
("ZLDR") are such that Major-Subdivision applications submitted under current ZLDR rules and
regulations might contradict the policy goals of the Comprehensive Plan update that is in
progress.

The Planning Commission has expressed that there is an immediate need to review Article 5 of
the ZLDR and possible amendments to Article5 of the ZLDR to strengthen sketch-plan
requirements, open-space standards, traffic-impact analysis, and adequate-public-facility
provisions.

The Planning Commission asserts that one-hundred-eighty (180) days is the minimum time to
accomplish the tasks outlined to Kershaw County Council in its Resolution, and set forth herein,
and the Planning Commission has recommended that Kershaw County Council enact a temporary
moratorium on Major Subdivisions.

Kershaw County Council has considered the findings and policy concerns articulated by the
Planning Commission in its Resolution and adopts the findings and policy concerns stated herein.

Kershaw County Council further finds that the impact and strain of residential development on
County resources and infrastructure is not unique to Major Subdivisions as that term had been
previously defined and that the cumulative impact of subdivision projects of greater than (5S) lots
is similar to Major Subdivisions as that term has been previously defined and that a moratorium
should be imposed on residential subdivision submissions seeking to create greater than five (5)
lots. This is in keeping with Kershaw County Council’s current efforts to redefine Major
Subdivision under 5:2-31 to mean a subdivision project of greater than (5) lots, which was
recommended by the Planning Commission on July 14, 2025, by a 3-2 vote, and which was
adopted on First Reading by Kershaw County Council on July 22, 2025.

Kershaw County Council further finds that any proposed review and recommended revisions to
Article 5 of the ZLDR should consider the requirements of Minor Subdivision development and
any entity conducting such a review is instructed to review Minor Subdivision development
requirements and the impact of Minor Subdivision development on county resources, facilities,
and infrastructure.

Kershaw County Council further finds that an additional 75 days would give appropriate time to
study these issues given the scope of review, and the fact that the Comprehensive Plan is still with
the Planning Commission. Imposing a two hundred fifty-five (255) day moratorium will provide

Ordinance No. 112.2025
Page 2 of 4


Kershaw Count y, through its Planning Commission, Planning & Zoning staff, consulting firms,
academic research partners, and any other County boards, commissions, agents, or officials,
adequate time and opportunity to study, analyze, and make recommendations to Kershaw County
Council concerning the impact of residential growth within the unincorporated area of Kershaw
County by:

1. completing the 2025 Comprehensive Plan update; and

2. drafting and recommending amendments to Article5 of the ZLDR to strengthen
sketch-plan, open-space, traffic-impact, and adequate-public-facility standards; and

3. making formal recommendations to Kershaw County Council concerning the
management of residential growth during the first two years of the ten-year
comprehensive-planning horizon.

Section 2. Adoption of a Two Hundred Fifty-Five (255) Day Temporary Moratorium on
Subdivision Applications for residential development of greater than five (5)
additional lots.

A temporary moratorium is imposed upon the acceptance, processing, and approval of subdivision
applications for residential development of greater than five (5) additional lots and shall remain in effect
for two hundred fifty-five (255) days from the third reading date of this ordinance, after which the
moratorium shall terminate unless extended by duly enacted Resolution of the Kershaw County Council
setting forth the factual basis and policy rationale for extension of the Moratorium.

Section 3. Applicability

Any application for subdivision approval is subject to this moratorium when the cumulative number of
lots shown on the subdivision’s sketch plan or proposed subdivision plat of the entire tract ultimately to
be developed (ZLDR § 5:2.4-2(B)(4)) exceeds five (5) lots. The lot count is aggregated across all phases
of development reflected on that sketch plan, prior plans of subdivision development, or any subsequent
plat (ZLDR § 5:2.3-1(E)).

This moratorium does not apply to an Exempt Subdivision or a Planned Development District (PDD), as
those terms are defined in the ZLDR, or to those projects that have received sketch plan approval from the
Planning Commission prior to first reading of this ordinance.

Section 4. Pending Ordinance Invoked.

Applications for permits for Major Subdivisions of sufficient form and content, as determined by County
staff, received by the County prior to the first-reading date of this ordinance may be reviewed and
processed under existing ZLDR regulations. Otherwise, the applications are barred pursuant to the
pending-ordinance doctrine.

Subject to the lot count provisions of Section 3 of this Ordinance, applications of sufficient form and
content, as determined by County staff, seeking permitting of the subdivision of greater than five (5)
additional residential lots, received by the County prior to the second-reading date of this ordinance may
be reviewed and processed under existing ZLDR regulations. Otherwise, the applications are barred
pursuant to the pending-ordinance doctrine.

Ordinance No. 112.2025
Page 3 of 4


Section 5. Severability.

If any section, subsection or clause of this ordinance is held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid,
the validity of the remaining sections, subsections and clauses shall not be affected.

Section 6. Conflicting Provisions.

To the extent this ordinance contains provisions that conflict with provisions contained elsewhere in the
Kershaw County Code or other County ordinances, the provisions contained in this ordinance supersede
all other provisions and this ordinance is controlling.

Section 7. Effective Date.

Subject to the provision of Section 4, this ordinance is effective upon third reading.

AND IT IS SO ORDAINED

Dated this 22%? day of July, 2025.

KERSHAW COUNTY, SOUTH CAROLINA

16 Coll

J. Ben Conleh = 7
Chairmap,/Kershaw County Council

ATTEST:

Hannah Parler, Clerk to Council

First Reading: May 27, 2025
Second Reading: June 10, 2025
Public Hearing: July 8, 2025

Third Reading: July 22, 2025

Ordinance No. 112.2025
Page 4 of 4
