                                      Chester County Council Meeting
                                                       R. Carlisle Roddey Government Building
                                                  1476 J A Cochran Bypass | Chester, SC 29706
                                                                Monday, July 20, 2026 | 6:00 PM
                                           AGENDA



1. CALL TO ORDER

2. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE AND INVOCATION

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

     a)   July 6, 2026, Council Meeting Minutes

4. CITIZEN’S COMMENTS

5. PUBLIC HEARING

      a) Ordinance 2026-14 Declaring a temporary, countywide pause on the acceptance, processing,
          and approval of applications regarding data centers and data center-related developments;
          directing the study and preparation of data center development standards; invoking the
          pending ordinance doctrine; and providing for other related matters.

6. ORDINANCES | RESOLUTIONS | PROCLAMATIONS

      a) A Proclamation Recognizing the 36th Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act

      b) A Proclamation Recognizing August 2026 as Overdose Awareness Month and
         August 31, 2026, as International Overdose Awareness Day

      c) 3rd Reading of Ordinance 2026-14 Declaring a temporary, countywide pause on the
         acceptance, processing, and approval of applications regarding data centers and data center-
         related developments; directing the study and preparation of data center development
         standards; invoking the pending ordinance doctrine; and providing for other related matters.

7. ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT




                                                                                            1|Pa ge


8. CONSENT AGENDA

      a) 2nd Reading of Ordinance 2026-15 Amending Ordinance No. 2026-06, which authorized the
         transfer of approximately 4.52 acres of real property with improvements, if any, located on
         Doctors Court on Highway 97, with County TMS Nos. 080-03-03-025, 080-03-03-022, and 080-
         03-03-020; to revise the property description and the purchase price to reflect the
         reconfigured lots being transferred; to reduce the purchase price by a credit for the cost of
         the initial survey advanced by the purchaser; to revise certain other terms of the purchase
         and sale agreement; and providing for other related matters.

      b) 2nd Reading of CCMA26-05 Agent of Level 3 Communications LLC requests Tax Map #081-00-00-
         121-000 (4.24+/- acres) located oﬀ Columbia Rd, Chester, SC 29706 to be rezoned from Rural
         Two District (R2) to Restricted Industrial District (ID-1). Planning Commission Vote 5-0 to
         approve.

      c) 2nd Reading of CCMA26-06 Tommie Tomberlin requests Tax Map #122-00-00-101-000 (1.00+/-
         acres) located at 4178 Edgeland Rd, Edgemoor, SC 29712 to be rezoned from Rural One
         District (R1) to Rural Two District (R2). Planning Commission Vote 5-0 to approve.

9. OLD BUSINESS

10. NEW BUSINESS

      a) 2026-2027 Accommodation Tax Advisory Committee Recommendations
         Elizabeth Claytor, Accommodation Tax Advisory Chairwoman

      b) Consideration of Approval of a Multi-Year Contract with DC Group
         Max Dorsey, Chester County Sheriﬀ

      c) Consideration of Approval of a Multi-Year Contract with Jail Tracker
         Max Dorsey, Chester County Sheriﬀ

      d) Consideration of Approval of a Multi-Year Contract with TextMyGov
         Deputy Administrator Nicole Workman

      e) Bond Approval for Winchester Phase I
         Jeremy Ward, Planning and Development Director

11. BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

      a) Airport Commission Appointment




                                                                                             2|Pa ge


     12. EXECUTIVE SESSION

                 a) Legal Advice regarding Fort Lawn Fire Protection District Review

                 b) Discussion of negotiations incident to proposed contractual arrangements concerning
                    Owner's Representative Services with regard to the proposed Chester County Law
                    Enforcement Center.

     13. ACTIONS FOLLOWING EXECUTIVE SESSION

                  a) Action taken regarding Fort Lawn Fire Protection District Investigation

                  b) Action taken regarding the discussion of negotiations incident to proposed contractual
                     arrangements concerning Owner's Representative Services with regard to the proposed
                     Chester County Law Enforcement Center and Magistrate Court.

     14. COUNCIL COMMENTS

     15. ADJOURN




                                                                Guidelines for Addressing Council
 Citizens Comments:                                                               Public Hearings:
 Each citizen will be limited to three minutes.                                   Each speaker will be limited to three minutes.
 When introduced:                                                                  Anyone addressing Council will be called out of order if you:
 Approach the podium, state your name and address.                                Use profanity.
 Speak loudly and clearly, making sure that the microphone is not obstructed.     Stray from the subject.
 Do not address the audience – direct all comments to Council.                    Make comments personally attacking an individual member of Council.
 Do not approach the Council table unless directed.

Pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, the Chester News & Reporter, The Herald in Rock Hill, SC, WSOC-TV, Channel 9 Eyewitness News, the Mfg. Housing Institute of SC,
WRHI Radio Station, C&N2 News, WCNC News and Capitol Consultants were notified, and a notice was posted on the bulletin board at the Chester County Government Building
twenty-four hours prior to the meeting.




                                                                                                                                                               3|Pa ge


Chester County Council Meeting
R. Carlisle Roddey Government Building

1476 J ACochran Bypass | Chester, SC 29706

Monday, July 6, 2026 | 6:00 PM

Present: Chairman Pete Wilson, Vice Chair Erin Mosley, Councilman John Agee, Councilman Corey Guy, Councilman
Bobby Raines, Councilman Roy Brunson, Councilman William Killian, County Administrator Brian Hester, County Attorney
Nicole Workman, Clerk to Council Latrice Harper

MINUTES

1. CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Wilson called the meeting to order at 6:00pm and declared a quorum of Council present.

2. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE AND INVOCATION
The allegiance was recited and invocation lead by Councilman Guy.

3. PRESENTATION OF DONATION TO CHESTER YOUTH BASEBALL & SOFTBALL LEAGUE
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

a) June 15, 2026, Council Meeting Minutes
Vice Chairwoman Mosley motioned to approve, seconded by Councilman Brunson. Vote 6-0 to approve

5. CITIZEN’S COMMENTS
Five citizens spoke in reference to data centers.

6. PUBLIC HEARING
Chairman Wilson opened the public hearing and stated there were no speakers signed up to speak. He gave the
public a chance to speak. The public hearing was closed.

a) Ordinance 2026-13
Authorizing the transfer of the County’s interest in approximately 0.07 Acres of real property
with improvements, if any, located on Cadz Street, with County TMS No. 201-11-06-015-000,
also known as the Red Cross Building; and providing for other related matters.

7. ORDINANCES | RESOLUTIONS | PROCLAMATIONS

a) 3 Reading of Ordinance 2026-13 Authorizing the transfer of the County’s interest in
approximately 0.07 Acres of real property with improvements, if any, located on Cadz Street,
with County TMS No. 201-11-06-015-000, also known as the Red Cross Building; and
providing for other related matters.

1|Page


8.

Attorney Workman spoke of changes in the final draft from Quit Claim deed to a Limited Warranty deed.
Council motioned to accept and approve the final draft with changes.
Vice Chair Mosley motioned to approve, seconded by Councilman Guy. Vote 7-0 to approve

b) 2% Reading of Ordinance 2026-14 Declaring a temporary, countywide pause on the

acceptance, processing, and approval of applications regarding data centers and data center-
related developments; directing the study and preparation of data center development
standards; invoking the pending ordinance doctrine; and providing for other related matters.
Vice Chair Mosley motioned to approve, seconded by Councilman Brunson. Vote 7-0 to approve

c) 1% Reading of Ordinance 2026-15 Amending Ordinance No. 2026-06, which authorized the

transfer of approximately 4.563 acres of real property with improvements, if any, located on
Doctors Court on Highway 97, with County TMS Nos. 080-03-03-025, 080-03-03-022, and 080-
03-03-020; to revise the property description and the purchase price to reflect the
reconfigured lots being transferred; to reduce the purchase price by a credit for the cost of
the initial survey advanced by the purchaser; to revise certain other terms of the purchase
and sale agreement; and providing for other related matters.

Councilman Agee motioned to approve, seconded by Councilman Guy. Vote 7-0 to approve

ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT

Administrator Hester announced that County Attorney Nicole Workman has been given an additional title of
Deputy County Administrator. He shared that the Parks and Rec Department put together a public input session
that will be led by Dr. Bob Brookover from Clemson University will be held July 7th and there will be two sessions
4:30 pm and 6:00 pm at the War Memorial Building. Administrator Hester announced that Building and Zoning
Department launched a New Customer Satisfaction survey.

CONSENT AGENDA
Councilman Raines motioned to approve a-e, seconded by Councilman Brunson. Vote 7-0 to approve

a)

b)

d)

3'¢ Reading of CCMA26-04 Jay Rinehart with Norstar Industrial LLC requests Tax Map #078-00-
00-072-000 (5.04+/- acres) located at 1259 Armory Road, Chester, SC 29706 to be rezoned from
Restricted Industrial District (ID-1) to Limited Industrial District (ID-2). Planning Commission
Vote 4-0 to approve.

34 Reading of CCTA26-10 - Chester County Zoning Ordinance - Text Amendment to Chapter 4
§4-121 - “ID-2 - Limited Industrial District Uses - Special Exceptions #2.” Planning
Commission Vote 5-0 to approve.

3 Reading of CCTA26-11 - Chester County Zoning Ordinance - Text Amendment to Chapter 4
§4-121 - “ID-2 - Limited Industrial District Uses - Special Exceptions #3.” Planning
Commission Vote 4-0 to approve.

3" Reading of CCTA26-12 - Chester County Zoning Ordinance - Text Amendment to Chapter 4
§4-122 - “ID-2 - Limited Industrial District Regulations.” Planning Commission Vote 4-0 to
approve.

2|Page


e) 3% Reading of CCTA26-13 - Chester County Zoning Ordinance - Text Amendment to Chapter 4
§4-124 - “ID-3 - General Industrial District Regulations.” Planning Commission Vote 4-0 to
approve.

10. OLD BUSINESS

a) 3 Reading of CCTA26-08 - Chester County Zoning Ordinance - Text Amendment to Chapter 4
§4-103 - “R-2 - Rural Two District Uses - Special Exceptions #3.” Planning Commission Vote
5-0 to approve.

Councilman Raines motioned to approve, seconded by Councilman Guy. Vote 6-0 to approve, Vice Chair
Mosley recused herself

b) 3' Reading of CCTA26-09 - Chester County Zoning Ordinance - Text Amendment to Chapter 4
§4-103 - “R-2 - Rural Two District Uses - Special Exceptions #13.” Planning Commission Vote
5-0 to approve.

Councilman Guy motioned to approve, seconded by Councilman Brunson. Vote 6-0 to approve, Vice
Chair Mosley recused herself

11. NEW BUSINESS

a) Emergency Services Department Update
Kell Benson, Emergency Services Director

b) 1% Reading of CCMA26-05 Agent of Level 3 Communications LLC requests Tax Map #081-00-00-
121-000 (4.24+/- acres) located off Columbia Rd, Chester, SC 29706 to be rezoned from Rural
Two District (R2) to Restricted Industrial District (ID-1). Planning Commission Vote 5-0 to
approve.

Councilman Raines motioned to approve, seconded by Councilman Brunson. Vote 7-0 to approve.

c) 1% Reading of CCMA26-06 Tommie Tomberlin requests Tax Map #122-00-00-101-000 (1.00+/-
acres) located at 4178 Edgeland Rd, Edgemoor, SC 29712 to be rezoned from Rural One
District (R1) to Rural Two District (R2). Commissioner Smith motioned to approve, second by
Commissioner Walley. Planning Commission Vote 5-0 to approve.

Vice Chairwoman Mosley motioned to approve, seconded by Councilman Raines. Vote 7-0 to approve.

12. BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

a) Airport Commission resignation
Chairman Wilson motioned to approve the resignation of George Whitesides, seconded by Councilman
Raines. Vote 7-0 to approve.

b) Airport Commission appointment
Councilman Raines motioned to appoint Sam Anderson, seconded by Councilman Brunson. Vote 7-0 to
approve.

3|/Page


13. EXECUTIVE SESSION
Councilman Raines motioned to enter executive session, seconded by Councilman Brunson
Vote 7-0 to enter executive session.

a) Receipt of legal advice pertaining to Animal Shelter

14. ACTIONS FOLLOWING EXECUTIVE SESSION
Councilman Raines motioned to return to regular session, seconded by Vice Chairwoman Mosley
Vote 7-0 to return to regular session.

Chairman Wilson stated that item a was taken as information only.
a) Action taken regarding Animal Shelter
15. COUNCIL COMMENTS

16. ADJOURN
Councilman Guy motioned to adjourn, seconded by Vice Chairwoman Mosley 7-0 to adjourn.
Chairman Wilson adjourned the meeting at 7:44 pm

Latrice Harper
Clerk to Council
Guidelines for Addressing Council

Citizens Comments: Public Hearings:
Each citizen will be limited to three minutes. Each speaker will be limited to three minutes.
When introduced: Anyone addressing Council will be called out of order if you:
Approach the podium, state your name and address. Use profanity.
Speak loudly and clearly, making sure that the microphone is not obstructed. Stray from the subject.
Do not address the audience — direct all comments to Council. Make comments personally attacking an individual member of Council.

Do not approach the Council table unless directed.

Pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, the Chester News & Reporter, The Herald in Rock Hill, SC, WSOC-TV, Channel 9 Eyewitness News, the Mfg. Housing Institute of SC,
WRHI Radio Station, C&2N2 News, WCNC News and Capitol Consultants were notified, and a notice was posted on the bulletin board at the Chester County Government Building

twenty-four hours prior to the meeting.

4|Page


                               CHESTER COUNTY, SOUTH CAROLINA

                                         ORDINANCE NO. 2026-14

             DECLARING A TEMPORARY, COUNTYWIDE PAUSE ON THE
             ACCEPTANCE, PROCESSING, AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS
             REGARDING DATA CENTERS AND DATA CENTER-RELATED
             DEVELOPMENTS; DIRECTING THE STUDY AND PREPARATION OF
             DATA CENTER DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; INVOKING THE
             PENDING ORDINANCE DOCTRINE; AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER
             RELATED MATTERS.

      WHEREAS, pursuant to South Carolina Code Annotated section 4-9-25, all counties of the State have
authority to enact regulations, resolutions, and ordinances, not inconsistent with the Constitution and general
law of this State, respecting any subject as appears to them necessary and proper for the security, general welfare,
and convenience of counties or for preserving health, peace, order, and good government in them, and the
powers of a county must be liberally construed in favor of the county; see Hospitality Ass’n of South Carolina, Inc.
v. County of Charleston, 320 S.C. 219, 464 S.E.2d 113 (1995);

      WHEREAS, the South Carolina Local Government Comprehensive Planning Enabling Act of 1994,
codified in South Carolina Code Annotated section 6-29-310, et seq., further grants local governments the
authority to plan for and regulate land development, including the zoning of land and the regulation of the use
of tracts or parcels of land within their jurisdictions;

      WHEREAS, data centers are a distinct and intensive category of land development, typically
characterized by large building footprints and campus acreages; exceptional and sustained demands for electric
power, including dedicated substations and transmission infrastructure; substantial withdrawals or consumption
of water for cooling; continuous, twenty-four-hour mechanical and generator noise; arrays of on-site diesel or
other fossil-fueled backup generators; and comparatively low permanent employment relative to the acreage
consumed and the public infrastructure required;

      WHEREAS, the County’s existing land development and related land use ordinances and regulations
were recently undated and drafted to create standards for data centers; however further review of use-specific
standards addressing the siting, separation, scale, utility and water capacity, noise, screening and buffering, fire
protection, and/or decommissioning of data centers, and the Council finds that the approval of data center
developments in advance of further study of such standards could impose irreversible impacts on the County’s
residents, water resources, electric ratepayers, roads, and rural character;

      WHEREAS, the General Assembly of South Carolina has itself recognized that the regulatory
framework governing data centers remains unsettled, having enacted the South Carolina Energy Security Act,
Act No. 41 of 2025 (H. 3309), addressing the procurement of generation for large-load customers, and having
had pending before it multiple measures specific to data centers, including House Joint Resolution 5286
(proposing a statewide pause on final approvals of data center applications, permits, and incentives), House
Joint Resolution 5526 (proposing that no permits or applications for data centers be accepted or acted on until
a comprehensive oversight and approval process is established), Senate Bill 724 (commercial data center water
usage reporting), Senate Bill 867 (data center development), and House Bill 4583 (the South Carolina Data
Center Responsibility Act);

      WHEREAS, other South Carolina counties confronting similar inquiries have adopted or are considering
temporary pauses on data center approvals while their comprehensive plans and land use codes are reviewed
and updated, including, for example, Colleton County, which in May 2026 gave first reading to a six-month
moratorium on special exceptions and conditional-use approvals for data centers pending updates to its
Comprehensive Plan and Land Use Code; Newberry County, which in June 2026 adopted a one-year
moratorium pausing acceptance of new data center permits; and Chesterfield County, which in May 2026
advanced a moratorium on second reading to allow the development of an ordinance framework where none
previously existed;


      WHEREAS, the appellate courts of this State have confirmed that a local government may impose a
temporary pause on development in order to proceed judiciously toward the adoption of land use regulations,
provided the pause is uniformly applied and does not extend for an unreasonable period of time, Stratos v. Town
of Ravenel, 297 S.C. 309, 376 S.E.2d 783 (Ct. App. 1989);

      WHEREAS, the Supreme Court of South Carolina has further adopted the “pending ordinance
doctrine,” under which a permit may properly be refused for a use repugnant to a pending and later enacted
land use ordinance, and an ordinance is legally pending when the governing body has resolved to consider a
particular scheme of regulation and has advertised to the public its intention to hold public hearings thereon,
Sherman v. Reavis, 273 S.C. 542, 257 S.E.2d 735 (1979); cf. Continental Southeastern Group v. City of Folly Beach, 290
S.C. 206, 348 S.E.2d 837 (1986) (holding the doctrine inapplicable where the governing body has neither
resolved to consider a particular scheme of regulation nor advertised public hearings thereon), and by this
Ordinance the Council so resolves and directs that such public hearings be advertised and held;

      WHEREAS, the County has received inquiries, and anticipates that it will continue to receive, inquiries
and may receive applications concerning the development of data centers within the County, and the Council
intends temporarily to pause the acceptance, processing, and approval of applications related to data center
developments, uniformly and countywide, for a limited period in order to study these impacts and to prepare,
advertise, and consider appropriate amendments to the County’s land use ordinances; and

       WHEREAS, a landowner acquires no vested right to a contemplated use of property absent the
establishment of a nonconforming use, or the incurrence of expenses or obligations in good faith reliance on
an already issued permit, prior to the effective date of the applicable regulation, see Sherman v. Reavis, supra;
Friarsgate, Inc. v. Town of Irmo, 290 S.C. 266, 349 S.E.2d 891 (Ct. App. 1986);

   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL IN MEETING
DULY ASSEMBLED:

      Section 1. Findings; Incorporation of Recitals. The findings and recitals set forth above are adopted
by the Council as legislative findings of fact and are incorporated herein.

        Section 2. Definition. For purposes of this Ordinance, “Data Center” means any building, structure,
facility, or campus, or any portion thereof, used or intended to be used primarily for the housing and operation
of computer servers, data storage equipment, network and telecommunications equipment, or related
processing infrastructure, together with associated cooling, power generation, substation, and transmission
facilities, including without limitation facilities commonly described as data centers, server farms, colocation
facilities, cryptocurrency or digital asset mining operations, and artificial intelligence computing facilities. “Data
Center Development” means any application, petition, or request for a rezoning, planned development, text or
map amendment, special exception, variance, subdivision, site plan, land development, utility, or building permit
approval for, or in furtherance of, a Data Center.

      Section 3. Enactment of Review Period; Pause. The County imposes a temporary, countywide pause
on the acceptance, processing, and approval of any application regarding any Data Center Development. This
Ordinance is not a “moratorium” but serves generally to cease the approval process for Data Center
Developments throughout the entire unincorporated area of the County, to enable the County to study the
impacts described herein and to prepare, advertise, and consider appropriate amendments to the County’s land
use ordinances and/or regulations. A County official, employee, board, or commission shall not accept, process,
or approve any application for any Data Center Development.

       Section 4. Study Directive; Public Hearings. The Council hereby determines to consider a particular
scheme of regulation governing Data Centers and directs the County’s planning staff along with outside subject
matter experts to further study the County land development and related land use ordinances and regulations
establishing use-specific standards for Data Centers, addressing, without limitation, districts of permitted
location; minimum separation, setback, screening, and buffering requirements; demonstrated adequacy of
electric, and water;; noise limits; and decommissioning and financial assurance. Public hearings on such
amendments shall be advertised and held as required, if required, by law, and notice of this Ordinance and of
the County’s intention to hold such hearings shall be published and posted in public places within the County.


      Section 5. Uniform Application. This Ordinance applies uniformly throughout the unincorporated area
of the County to all persons, properties, and Data Center Developments similarly situated, without exception
or preference.

    Section 6. No Vested Rights. This Ordinance does not vest any rights in any person or entity, and the
County reserves the right to repeal or amend this Ordinance, at any time, from time to time, as often as the
County, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.

      Section 7. General Repealer. Each ordinance, resolution, regulation, order, or other directive of the
County, and each part of the same, in conflict with this Ordinance, is, to the extent of that conflict, repealed
and replaced by this Ordinance.

      Section 8. Severability. If any part of this Ordinance is unenforceable for any reason, then the remainder
of this Ordinance remains in full force and effect.

       Section 9. Pending Ordinance Doctrine; Effective Date. The “Pending Ordinance Doctrine,” as
described and applied by the South Carolina Supreme Court in Sherman vs. Reavis, 273 S.C. 542, 257 S.E.2d 735
(1979), and as adopted and applied by South Carolina courts in other decisions, is adopted and declared to be
in full force and effect in the County with respect to application of any County planning, zoning, and
development matters, including the matters contained in this Ordinance. As a result, this Ordinance shall be
deemed to be applicable at and after first reading and shall terminate, unless extended by the County, on the
earlier of (a) this Ordinance’s repeal and (b) December 31, 2026.
                                            [ONE SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
                                       [REMAINDER OF PAGE SUBSTANTIVELY BLANK]


                                   CHESTER COUNTY, SOUTH CAROLINA



                                   Pete Wilson Chairman
                                   Chester County Council


(SEAL)

ATTEST:



Latrice Harper
Clerk to Council

First Reading      June 15, 2026
Second Reading     July 6, 2026
Public Hearing     July 20, 2026
Third Reading      July 20, 2026


        STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA                         )
                                                        )                PROCLAMATION
        CHESTER COUNTY                                  )


         A PROCLAMATION RECOGNIZING THE 36TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
                    AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT

WHEREAS, signed into law on July 26, 1990, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) ensures
the rights of citizens with disabilities by prohibiting discrimination in the areas of education,
employment, government services, places of public accommodation, commercial facilities, and other
vital areas of society, and is recognized as the landmark legislation providing equal treatment to
Americans with disabilities; and

WHEREAS, the ADA has expanded opportunities for Americans with disabilities by reducing
barriers, changing perceptions about citizens with disabilities, and increasing opportunities for full
community inclusion; and

WHEREAS, numerous organizations, including Able South Carolina, advocates, and community
partners within Chester County and across the Palmetto State work tirelessly with constituents to
bring forth the promise of hope and freedom envisioned by the passage of the ADA; and

WHEREAS, the 36th Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act provides a vital
opportunity to renew our local commitment to the ADA’s principles—ensuring the rights,
independence, and dignity of citizens with disabilities, and empowering our county, state, and nation
to benefit from the talents and contributions of all Americans.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, Pete Wilson, Chairman of County Council of Chester County, do hereby
proclaim July 26th, 2026, as the 36th Anniversary Day for the Americans With Disabilities Act
throughout Chester County and encourage all residents to recognize the vital importance of the ADA,
to celebrate the individuals it has empowered over the past thirty-six years, and to honor their
extraordinary achievements.

                                        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
                                        caused the Seal of Chester County to be fixed this 20th day of
                                        July, in the Year of our Lord, Two Thousand, Twenty-Six.


                                        ________________________________________________
                                        Pete Wilson, Chairman
                                        Chester County Council
ATTEST:



Latrice Harper
Clerk to Council


        STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA                          )
                                                         )                PROCLAMATION
        CHESTER COUNTY                                   )

 A PROCLAMATION RECOGNIZING AUGUST 2026 AS OVERDOSE AWARENESS
 MONTH AND AUGUST 31, 2026, AS INTERNATIONAL OVERDOSE AWARENESS
                                 DAY

WHEREAS, drug overdose continues to have a profound impact on individuals, families, and
communities throughout Chester County, South Carolina; and

WHEREAS, International Overdose Awareness Day, observed annually on August 31st, is a global
initiative dedicated to increasing public awareness, reducing the stigma associated with substance use
disorders, and honoring the lives of those lost to overdose; and

WHEREAS, twenty-one Chester County residents lost their lives to suspected drug overdoses in 2025,
demonstrating the continued and urgent need for prevention, treatment, recovery services, and community
education; and

WHEREAS, substance use disorder is a treatable health condition, recovery is possible, and lives can be
saved through compassionate care, evidence-based prevention and treatment, effective overdose
prevention strategies, and expanded access to naloxone; and

WHEREAS, Chester County honors the memory of those who have lost their lives to overdose, extends
support to the families, friends, and communities affected by these losses, and recognizes the dedication
of healthcare professionals, first responders, behavioral health providers, law enforcement personnel, and
community organizations working to prevent overdose and promote recovery;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT PROCLAIMED, that the Chester County Council hereby recognizes
August 2026 as Overdose Awareness Month and August 31, 2026, as International Overdose
Awareness Day in Chester County, South Carolina, and encourages all residents to increase awareness,
recognize the signs of overdose, support individuals in recovery, honor those who have been lost, and
work collectively to prevent overdose and save lives.

                                         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
                                         caused the Seal of Chester County to be fixed this 20th day of
                                         July, in the Year of our Lord, Two Thousand, Twenty-Six.

                                         ______________________________________________
                                         Pete Wilson, Chairman
                                         Chester County Council
ATTEST:

____________________________
Latrice Harper
Clerk to Council


                                          CHESTER COUNTY
                                        ORDINANCE NO. 2026-15

            AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 2026-06, WHICH AUTHORIZED THE
            TRANSFER OF APPROXIMATELY 4.52 ACRES OF REAL PROPERTY WITH
            IMPROVEMENTS, IF ANY, LOCATED ON DOCTORS COURT ON
            HIGHWAY 97, WITH COUNTY TMS NOS. 080-03-03-025, 080-03-03-022, AND
            080-03-03-020; TO REVISE THE PROPERTY DESCRIPTION AND THE
            PURCHASE PRICE TO REFLECT THE RECONFIGURED LOTS BEING
            TRANSFERRED; TO REDUCE THE PURCHASE PRICE BY A CREDIT FOR
            THE COST OF THE INITIAL SURVEY ADVANCED BY THE PURCHASER;
            TO REVISE CERTAIN OTHER TERMS OF THE PURCHASE AND SALE
            AGREEMENT; AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER RELATED MATTERS.

WHEREAS, the County Council (“Council”) of Chester County (“County”) finds:

    (a) the County previously acquired real property located on Doctors Court on Highway 97, Chester
        County, South Carolina, with County TMS Nos. 080-03-03-025, 080-03-03-022, and 080-03-03-020,
        with a preliminary property description as provided on the attached Exhibit A (“Property”);

    (b) South Carolina law, specifically South Carolina Code Annotated section 4-9-30, and 4-9-130, among
        others, authorizes counties to sell, alienate, convey, and otherwise dispose of real property and
        personal property to third parties; and

    (c) the County desires to provide for conveyance of Property to Hazel Pittman Center or such other
        affiliated or related entity, according to a purchase and sale, the substantially final form of which
        is attached as Exhibit B (“PSA”); and

    (d) following the enactment of Ordinance No. 2026-06 on April 6, 2026, the Purchaser caused an initial
        survey of the Property to be performed by William Hipp, which survey determined that the
        railroad right-of-way reduced the usable acreage of the three originally identified lots, and the
        County and the Purchaser have agreed to reconfigure the lots to be conveyed, now identified as
        Chester County TMS Nos. 080-03-03-025, 080-03-03-022, and 080-03-03-020, comprising
        approximately 4.52 acres (Lots 7, 8, and 9) as determined by the completed survey; and the County
        and the Purchaser desire to amend the PSA to revise the property description and the Purchase
        Price accordingly, to credit the cost of the original survey and plat against, and reduce, the Purchase
        Price, to designate Gaston, Marion, Stubbs, Hunter & Swancy, P.A. as Escrow Agent and to revise
        the related escrow provisions, to provide that venue for any legal proceedings will be Chester
        County, and to remove the waiver of jury trial, the substantially final amended form of the PSA
        being attached as Exhibit B.

NOW, THEREFORE, by a majority vote of the Council members present, the County ORDAINS that
Ordinance No. 2026-06 is amended, and that the Property be conveyed according to the amended PSA
attached as Exhibit B;

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED that the Chair of County Council and/or the County Administrator are
hereby authorized, empowered and directed to execute, acknowledge, and deliver the PSA in the name of
and on behalf of the County, and the Clerk to County Council is hereby authorized and directed to attest the
same, and thereupon to cause the PSA to be delivered to the purchaser. The PSA is to be in substantially the
form now before this meeting and hereby approved, with such minor changes therein as shall be approved
by the officials of the County executing the same, upon advice of County Attorney, and as are not materially
adverse to the County, such official’s execution thereof to constitute conclusive evidence of such official’s
approval of any and all changes or revisions therein from the form the PSA now before this meeting;


BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED that the County Administrator, and/or his designee (each, an “Authorized
Official”), in consultation with the County Attorney, is authorized to prepare, or have prepared, the form
of the transfer documents that are customarily used for similar transactions in this State; (c) authorizes the
Authorized Official to provide information to the purchaser as is necessary and prudent to consummate
the Property’s transfer; and (d) authorizes the Authorized Official, the Chair of County Council, and in the
Chair’s absence, the Vice-Chair of County Council, and the Clerk to County Council, as appropriate, to
execute, attest, and deliver those documents that may be reasonably necessary to consummate the
Property’s transfer (the execution of those documents by the County’s representatives acting as conclusive
evidence that the documents are approved by the County);

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED that the County Administrator is authorized to use the funds obtained from
the conveyance of Property to develop the County park to be developed on or about Doctors Court; and

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED that any ordinance, resolution, or order of County Council, the terms of
which are in conflict with this Ordinance, is, only to the extent of that conflict, repealed.

                                      [SIGNATURE PAGE AND TWO EXHIBITS FOLLOW]
                                       [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY BLANK]


                                     CHESTER COUNTY, SOUTH CAROLINA



                                     Chairman
                                     Chester County Council
(SEAL)
ATTEST:



Clerk to Council


First Reading:     July 6, 2026
Second Reading:    July 20, 2026
Public Hearing:    August 17, 2026
Third Reading:     August 17, 2026


Chester County TMS No.:

EXHIBIT A
REVISED PROPERTY DESCRIPTION

080-03-03-025
080-03-03-022
080-03-03-020


                                              EXHIBIT B
                                   FORM OF PURCHASE-SALE AGREEMENT


                                  PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT
                                                   between

                                  Chester County, South Carolina, Seller
                                                     and
   Chester County Commission on Alcohol and Drug Abuse, d/b/a Hazel Pittman Center, Purchaser

                                          dated as of April [], 2026

                                  PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

         This PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT (“Agreement”), dated as of April [], 2026, which is
the date of the last of the signatures of Seller and Purchaser, (“Effective Date”), is entered into between
Chester County, South Carolina, a body political and municipal corporation organized according to the
laws of the State of South Carolina (“Seller”) and Chester County Commission on Alcohol and Drug Abuse,
d/b/a Hazel Pittman Center (“Purchaser”).


                                   CONVEYANCE OF THE PROPERTY

         Subject of Conveyance. Seller agrees to sell and convey to Purchaser and Purchaser agrees to
purchase from Seller, upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, all right, title, and interest of
Seller in and to the following (collectively, “Property”):

                 (a) all that certain lot, piece, or parcel of land of approximately 4.52 acres located on
Doctors Court on Highway 97, Chester County, South Carolina, with County TMS Nos. 080-03-03-025, 080-
03-03-022, and 080-03-03-020, and which property description(s) is subject to the creation of a final
description according to a survey to be obtained according to Section 4.03(a)(ii) of this Agreement (“Land”);

                 all of Seller’s right, title, and interest in and to any buildings and improvements located on
the Land (collectively, “Improvements”);

        Personal Property Excluded. The sale of the Property contemplated by this Agreement shall not
include any personal property.

        AS-IS.

                 Subject to Section 5.01 of this Agreement and the Closing Documents, Purchaser
acknowledges that (i) Purchaser has made a thorough inspection and investigation of the Property and
Purchaser agrees to take title to the Property “AS-IS, WHERE IS, AND WITH ALL FAULTS” and in the
condition existing as of the date of this Agreement, subject to reasonable use, ordinary wear and tear, and
without any reduction in or abatement of the Purchase Price; (ii) Purchaser has undertaken all such
investigations of the Property as Purchaser deems necessary or appropriate under the circumstances as to
the status of the Property and the existence or non-existence of curative action to be taken with respect to
any hazardous or toxic substances on or discharged from the Property, and based upon same, Purchaser is
and will be relying strictly and solely upon such inspections and examinations and the advice and counsel
of its own consultants, agents, legal counsel, and officers.


                  Neither party to this Agreement is relying on any statement or representation not expressly
stated in this Agreement or the Closing Documents (as defined herein): (ii) Purchaser specifically confirms
and acknowledges that in entering into this Agreement, Purchaser has not been induced by, and has not
relied upon, whether express or implied, warranties, guaranties, promises, statements, inducements,
representations, or information pertaining to the Property or its uses, the physical condition, environmental
condition, state of title, income, expenses, or operation of the Property, or any other matter or thing with
respect thereto, written or unwritten, whether made by Seller or any agent, employee, or other
representative of Seller, or any broker or any other person representing (or purporting to represent) Seller,
which are not expressly set forth in this Agreement or the Closing Documents. Seller shall not be liable for
or bound by any written or unwritten statements, representations, warranties, brokers’ statements, or other
information pertaining to the Property furnished by Seller, any broker, any agent, employee, or other actual
(or purported) representative of Seller, or any person, unless and only to the extent the same are expressly
set forth in this Agreement or the Closing Documents.

                  Subject to Section 5.01 of this Agreement and the Closing Documents, (i) Seller makes no
warranty with respect to the presence of any hazardous or toxic substances on, above, beneath, or
discharged from the Property (or any adjoining or neighboring property) or in any water on or under the
Property, (ii) the Closing hereunder shall be deemed to constitute an express waiver of Purchaser’s right to
recover from Seller, and forever releases, covenants not to sue, and discharges Seller from, any and all
damages, demands, claims, losses, liabilities, penalties, fines, liens, judgments, costs, or expenses
whatsoever, including attorneys’ fees and costs, whether direct or indirect, known or unknown, foreseen
or unforeseen, that may arise on account of or in any way be connected with the physical condition of the
Property.

               The provisions of this Section 1.03 shall survive the Closing and shall not be deemed to
have merged into any of the documents executed or delivered at the Closing.

        Due Diligence.

                Due Diligence Period. Purchaser shall have an inspection period beginning on the Effective
Date and continuing until 5:00 p.m. EST on the date that is 60 days thereafter (“Inspection Period”). During
the Inspection Period, Purchaser and its agents, contractors, clients, and employees shall have the right to
enter the Property to perform, at its sole cost and expense, such inspections and tests (collectively,
“Inspections”) as Purchaser deems necessary, including a Phase I ESA. Furthermore, during the Inspection
Period, Purchaser shall also have the right to have title to the Property examined as further described in
Article IV below.

                  Termination Rights. If Purchaser, in its sole discretion, determines the Property is
unacceptable for any reason or if the results of Purchaser’s title examination reveal any matter which affects
the marketability of title or intended use of the Property as provided above as determined by Purchaser in
its sole discretion, or if Purchaser decides not to proceed with the purchase of the Property for any reason
or no reason, Purchaser may terminate this Agreement by delivering written notice of termination to Seller
prior to the end of the Inspection Period. Upon delivery of such notice, Escrow Agent shall return the
Deposit (as defined herein) to Purchaser and this Agreement shall terminate and the parties shall have no
further rights or obligations to each other, other than those that are intended to survive the termination of
this Agreement.


                                            PURCHASE PRICE

        Purchase Price and Deposit.      Simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this
Agreement by Purchaser, the sum of Ten Thousand, Two Hundred Fifty-Five and 05/100 Dollars
($10,255.05) (“Deposit”) by Purchaser’s certified check or official bank check, subject to collection, made


payable to Gaston, Marion, Stubbs, Hunter & Swancy, P.A., as escrow agent (“Escrow Agent”), or by wire
transfer of immediately available federal funds to an account at such bank as designated by Escrow Agent.
The receipt of the Deposit is hereby acknowledged, and Escrow Agent agrees to hold the Deposit in escrow
in a non-interest bearing account pursuant to the terms of Article XI of this Agreement. The Deposit shall
be applied to the Purchase Price at Closing.

        Section 1.02     The purchase price to be paid by Purchaser to Seller for the Property is Sixty-Five
Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($65,000.00) per acre (“Purchase Price”), which the parties understand to be,
in aggregate, Two Hundred Ninety-Three Thousand Eight Hundred and No/100 Dollars ($293,800.00),
based upon the completed survey establishing 4.52 acres. The final acreage and property description shall
be established by the Survey (as defined below). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Purchase Price shall
be reduced by a credit in favor of Purchaser equal to the amount paid by Purchaser to William Hipp for
the original survey and the plat of the Property, in the amount of Two Thousand Two Hundred and No/100
Dollars ($2,200.00), comprising the One Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty and No/100 Dollars ($1,750.00)
original survey and the Four Hundred Fifty and No/100 Dollars ($450.00) plat (the “Survey Credit”), such
that the net aggregate Purchase Price payable to Seller is Two Hundred Ninety-One Thousand Six Hundred
and No/100 Dollars ($291,600.00). The Purchaser shall be solely responsible for payment of the surveyor’s
invoices, and no further payment or reimbursement on account of the survey or plat shall be due from
Seller. The Purchase Price shall be payableto Seller on the Closing Date, subject to any credits or
apportionments as provided for under this Agreement, simultaneously with delivery of the Deed and other
Closing Documents (as defined hereafter), by certified or official bank checks or by one or more wire
transfers of immediately available federal funds to Seller’s account.



                                                 CLOSING

         Closing Date. The closing of the transaction contemplated by this Agreement (“Closing”) shall
take place on the date no later than 90 days from the Effective Date (“Closing Date”) through an escrow
closing with Gaston, Marion, Stubbs, Hunter & Swancy, P.A., 224 N. Main Street, Richburg, South Carolina
29729, as escrow agent (“Escrow Agent”). Provided however, upon written request by Purchaser delivered
not later than 10 days prior to the Closing Date, Seller agrees that the Closing Date may be scheduled for a
date that is 10 days following the approval of Purchaser’s Resolution, as such term is defined in Section
3.02(d). Seller and Purchaser agrees that TIME SHALL BE OF THE ESSENCE with respect to the
performance by Seller and Purchaser of their obligations under this Agreement.

        Seller’s Closing Deliverables. At least two business days prior to Closing, Seller shall deliver or
cause to be delivered to Escrow Agent, the following items, executed, witnessed, notarized, certified, and
acknowledged by Seller, as appropriate (collectively, “Seller Closing Documents”):

                 A copy of an ordinance authorizing the sale of the Property, enacted by the Seller’s County
Council.

                One original limited warranty deed (“Deed”) in substantially the form attached hereto as
Exhibit A referencing the Survey (as defined below) legal description duly executed with the appropriate
acknowledgment form and affidavit of consideration for transfer taxes attached and otherwise in proper
form for recording so as to convey title to the Property as required by this Agreement.

                  A certification that Seller is not a “foreign person” as such term is defined in Section 1445
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended and the regulations thereunder (collectively, “Code”), which
certification shall be signed under penalty of perjury.


              An original Owner’s affidavit in a form reasonably acceptable to Seller and the Title
Insurance Company.

                A counterpart of a closing statement jointly prepared by Seller and Purchaser reflecting
the prorations and adjustments required under this Agreement and the Purchase Price due Seller.

                An I-295 South Carolina non-resident withholding tax affidavit.

                A Transferor Affidavit (Tax Lien Inapplicable) in reasonable form acceptable to Seller.

                 Any other documents reasonably necessary to complete and evidence the sale and
acquisition of the Property contemplated hereby, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Parties.

         Purchaser’s Closing Deliverables. On the Closing Date, Purchaser shall deliver or cause to be
delivered by Escrow Agent to Seller, the following items, executed, witnessed, notarized, certified, and
acknowledged by Purchaser, as appropriate (“Purchaser Closing Documents,” and, together with the
Seller’s Closing Documents, “Closing Documents”):

               A certified duly adopted resolution of Purchaser’s board authorizing the transaction
contemplated hereby and the execution and delivery of the documents required to be executed and
delivered hereunder (“Purchaser’s Resolution”).

                The balance of the Purchase Price.

                The Purchaser’s closing statement.

                 All other documents reasonably necessary or otherwise required by the Escrow Agent or
the Title Insurance Company to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

                A written consent of an authorized agent of the Purchaser, or such other document meeting
        the requirements of the Title Insurance Company authorizing the transaction contemplated hereby
        and the execution and delivery of the documents required to be executed and delivered hereunder.

        Closing Costs.

                 Seller and Purchaser shall each pay the fees and expenses of its own counsel in connection
with the preparation and negotiation of this Agreement and any other agreements and instruments related
to the transaction contemplated by this Agreement.

                Seller shall pay:

                        (i)      all costs and recording fees for the Deed and for the release of any liens or
                other encumbrances which are not Permitted Exceptions on the Property, as required
                pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

                Purchaser shall pay:

                       (i)     the costs charged by Purchaser’s Title Insurance Company, including,
                without limitation, costs related to the Title Commitment, any premiums, title
                endorsements, and affirmative insurance;

                         (ii)       the costs related to the Survey and any other survey or survey update; and

                         (iii)      any other fees or costs related to Purchaser’s due diligence reviews.


        Apportionments. The following shall be apportioned as of 11:59 p.m. EST of the date immediately
preceding the Closing Date, unless expressly provided for otherwise:

                 All real estate taxes (if any) based on the fiscal year for which they are assessed and any
assessments, if any. If the Closing shall occur before a new tax rate is fixed, the apportionment of real estate
taxes shall be upon the basis of the tax rate for the preceding fiscal period applied to the latest assessed
valuation, however, adjustment will be made when the actual tax amount is determined.

                 All other items customarily apportioned in connection with sales of buildings substantially
        similar to the Property in the State of South Carolina.

         Miscellaneous Adjustments. Any miscellaneous adjustments payable by either Purchaser or
Seller, as the case may be, that occur at the Closing. Any errors in calculations or apportionments shall be
corrected or adjusted as soon as practicable after the Closing Date. The provisions of this Article III shall
survive the Closing.

         Conditions to Closing. Purchaser’s obligation to close shall be conditional upon the satisfaction of
the following conditions:

                 The physical and environmental condition of the Property shall not have changed from the
Effective Date; and

                 Seller’s warranties and representations under this Agreement shall be true and correct in
all material respects when made and at Closing, and all covenants and obligations of Seller contained in
this Agreement shall have been performed in all respects and Seller shall not be in default hereunder.


                                  TITLE MATTERS AND VIOLATIONS

         Acceptable Title. Seller shall convey, and Purchaser shall accept fee simple title to the Property,
free from all encumbrances to Purchaser, subject only to the Permitted Exceptions.

         Permitted Exceptions. The following matters shall constitute permitted exceptions to Seller’s
obligation to deliver to Purchaser fee simple title to the Property, free from all defects and encumbrances
(collectively, “Permitted Exceptions”):

                 Any and all zoning, building, environmental and other laws, statutes, ordinances, codes,
rules, regulations, requirements, or executive mandates of all governmental authorities having jurisdiction
with respect to the Property.

               Any state of facts that an accurate survey of the Property would disclose and to which
Purchaser does not object.

                 Any exceptions disclosed on Schedule B of the Title Commitment (as hereinafter defined)
to which Purchaser does not object or which will be extinguished upon the transfer of the Property and any
other matters of record as of the Effective Date to which Purchaser, in Purchaser’s sole discretion, does not
object, provided that any Monetary Liens shall not be Permitted Exceptions.

                 Any lien or encumbrance arising out of the acts or omissions of the Purchaser.

        Title Commitment.

                 Purchaser shall promptly order, at its sole cost and expense:


                          a commitment for title insurance (“Title Commitment”) from a title insurance
                 company selected by Purchaser (“Title Insurance Company”), which Title Commitment
                 shall be delivered to counsel for both Purchaser and Seller concurrently; and

                        a survey of the Property, prepared by a surveyor licensed in South Carolina
                 (“Survey”), which Survey shall be delivered to counsel for both Purchaser and Seller
                 concurrently and attached hereto as Exhibit B.

                   Purchaser or Purchaser’s attorney shall deliver to Seller, and Seller’s attorney, in writing,
any objections to the exceptions to title set forth in the Title Commitment or any matters shown on the
Survey, other than the Permitted Exceptions (collectively, “Title Objection Notice “), by no later than the
date that is 30 days after the Effective Date (“Title Objection Date”). The failure by Purchaser, or Purchaser’s
attorney, to deliver the Title Objection Notice on or before the Title Objection Date shall constitute
Purchaser’s irrevocable acceptance of the Title Commitment and Purchaser shall be deemed to have
unconditionally waived any right to object to any matters set forth therein. If, after giving the Title
Objection Notice to Seller and Seller’s attorney, Purchaser receives any amendment or update to the Title
Commitment or to the Survey showing any title defects which Purchaser claims are not Permitted
Exceptions, Purchaser shall give written notice thereof to Seller immediately after the date Purchaser
receives such evidence and Purchaser shall be deemed to have unconditionally waived any such matters
which it fails to give such notice to Seller prior to the Closing Date. Purchaser and Seller acknowledges and
agrees that TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE with respect to all time periods relating to Purchaser’s obligations
set forth in this Section 4.03.

                  Seller shall have the right, but not the obligation, to remove, correct, and/or satisfy
Purchaser’s Title Objections prior to the Closing. Seller shall (i) notify Purchaser within 10 business days
after receipt of Purchaser’s Title Objections (“Seller’s Response Period”) as to whether Seller will seek to
remove, correct, and/or satisfy any of Purchaser’s Title Objections (“Seller’s Response”), and (ii) keep
Purchaser reasonably apprised of Seller’s progress toward removing, correcting, and/or satisfying the same
(and the manner in which such will be removed, corrected, and/or satisfied) if Seller elects to attempt to
cure any of Purchaser’s Title Objections. If Seller fails to notify Purchaser of Seller’s Response within Seller’s
Response Period, then Seller shall be deemed to have elected not to seek to remove, correct, and/or satisfy
any of Purchaser’s Title Objections. If Seller elects to cure Purchaser’s Title Objections, Seller shall diligently
pursue the same to completion. If there remains at the Closing any of Purchaser’s Title Objections that (i)
Seller elected, during Seller’s Response Period, to attempt to cure, and (ii) could not be removed despite
Seller’s diligence, then Purchaser may elect to: (i) consummate the transaction contemplated by this
Agreement without regard to such defects and encumbrances; or (ii) terminate this Agreement and Escrow
Agent shall return the Deposit to Purchaser and no party shall have any rights, duties, or obligations
hereunder, except those specifically stated herein to survive termination of this Agreement. Purchaser shall
have the right, during and after the Inspection Period, to object to matters of title appearing of record after
the Effective Date. If a new title matter is recorded after the Effective Date and reflected in any updated
title insurance commitment, Seller shall use reasonable efforts to cause such new matter to be removed of
record prior to the applicable Closing, unless Purchaser, in Purchaser’s sole discretion, agrees to accept title
to the Property subject to such new matter.

        Seller’s Inability to Convey.

                 If Seller on the Closing Date fails or is unable to convey title subject to and in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement, or one of Purchaser’s conditions to Closing has not been satisfied,
Purchaser shall either: (i) terminate this Agreement by written notice to Seller and Escrow Agent delivered
on or before the Closing Date, and Escrow Agent shall return the Deposit to Purchaser and this Agreement
shall thereupon be deemed terminated and of no further effect, and neither party hereto shall have any
obligations to the other hereunder or by reason hereof, except for the provisions of subsection (b)


immediately following and those that expressly survive termination of this Agreement; or (ii) complete the
purchase with such title as Seller is able to convey on the Closing Date.

                   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, Seller shall not be
required to take or bring any action or proceeding or take any other steps to remove any defect in or
objection to title or to fulfill any condition precedent to Purchaser’s obligations under this Agreement or to
expend any moneys therefor, nor shall Purchaser have any right of action against Seller therefor, at law or
in equity, except that Seller shall, on or prior to the Closing, pay, discharge, or remove of record or cause
any Monetary Liens to be paid, discharged, or removed of record at Seller’s sole cost and expense and
remove of record or cause to be removed of record at Seller’s sole cost and expense any liens, defects or
encumbrances created, on or after the Effective Date of this Agreement, by Seller or Seller’s agents which
are not Permitted Exceptions. The term “Monetary Liens” as used herein shall mean any lien and other
encumbrances (other than Permitted Exceptions) which: (i) secure the payment of indebtedness of an
ascertainable amount, excepting only the lien for rollback taxes and ad valorem taxes for the year of each
Closing, if not then due and payable; (ii) are in a liquidated amount; (iii) may be satisfied solely by the
payment of money; and (iv) were created by Seller or Seller’s agents.

                 Notwithstanding anything in this Section to the contrary, Purchaser may at any time accept
such title as Seller can convey, without reduction of the Purchase Price or any credit or allowance on
account thereof or any claim against Seller. The acceptance of the Deed by Purchaser shall be deemed to be
full performance of, and discharge of, every agreement and obligation on Seller’s part to be performed
under this Agreement, except for such matters which are expressly stated to survive the Closing hereunder.


                        REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES, COVENANTS

        Seller’s Representations and Warranties. Seller represents, warrants and covenants to Purchaser on
and as of the date of this Agreement and on and as of the Closing Date as follows:

                (a) Seller is body politic and corporate and political subdivision of, and organized under,
the laws of the State of South Carolina, and validly existing under the laws of the State of South Carolina.

                To the best of the Seller’s knowledge, without inquiry, the execution, delivery, and
performance of this Agreement by Seller and all agreements, instruments, and documents herein provided
to be executed by Seller on the Closing Date: (i) do not violate any ordinances of Seller, or any contract,
agreement, commitment, lease, order, judgment, or decree to which Seller is a party; and (ii) have been
duly authorized by the County Council and the appropriate and necessary action has been taken by such
Council on the part of Seller. This Agreement is valid and binding upon Seller, subject to bankruptcy,
reorganization, and other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors’ rights generally.

                Seller is not a “foreign person” within the meaning of Section 1445 of the Code.

                 To the best of the Seller’s knowledge, without inquiry, there is no pending or threatened
litigation or condemnation action against the Property or against Seller with respect to the Property as of
the date of this Agreement. Seller has received no written notice from any governmental or quasi-
governmental agency or authority or potential condemnor concerning any right-of-way, utility or other
taking which may affect the Property.

                  Seller is not, and will not become, a person or entity with whom United States persons or
entities are restricted or prohibited from doing business under regulations of the Office of Foreign Asset
Control (“OFAC”) of the Department of the Treasury (including those named on OFAC’s Specially
Designated and Blocked Persons List) or under any statute, executive order (including the September 24,
2001, Executive Order Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions With Persons Who Commit,


Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism), or other governmental action and is not and will not engage
in any dealings or transactions or be otherwise associated with such persons or entities.

                  To the best of the Seller’s knowledge, without inquiry, (i) the Property is in full compliance
with all applicable environmental laws; (ii) the Property does not now contain and has not contained,
during Seller’s ownership of the Property, any underground storage tanks, landfills, or other hazardous
waste; (iii) the Property is not listed on any state or federal environmental remediation priority list; (iv) no
claim, action, suit or proceeding is pending or threatened against Seller or any third party relating to
hazardous waste, substances or materials (“Hazardous Materials”) on or within the Property, the violation
of any environmental law, or the presence of any tank, underground or otherwise, within the Property;
and (v) Seller has not materially violated any applicable State or federal environmental laws during Seller’s
ownership of the Property.

                To the best of the Seller’s knowledge, without inquiry, there are no violations of any laws,
ordinances, rules, regulations, zoning, or other legal requirements with respect to the Property.

                 To the best of the Seller’s knowledge, without inquiry, all labor performed and materials
supplied for the Property at Seller’s request have been fully paid by Seller, and no mechanic’s lien or other
lien may be claimed by any person for such labor or materials.

                 To the best of the Seller’s knowledge, without inquiry, there are no leases or rights to
possession of third parties except for certain leases the terms of which do not extend beyond the applicable
Closing Date.

                  To the best of the Seller’s knowledge, without inquiry, no other person, firm, or entity has
any rights in or right to acquire the Property or any part thereof, other than as evidenced by easements and
other documents, if any, recorded in the applicable public records.

                 Seller has not dealt with any broker in connection with this transaction.

           As used herein, the phrase “to the best of Seller’s knowledge, without inquiry” or such similar
    phrase means only those facts actually known by the County Administrator of the Seller.

             All representations and warranties of Seller are true and correct as of the Effective Date and
    shall be true and correct on and as of each Closing Date with the same force and effect as if made at
    that time and shall survive each Closing for a period of six months.

         Purchaser’s Representations and Warranties. Purchaser represents, warrants and covenants to
Seller on and as of the date of this Agreement and on and as of the Closing Date as follows:

                Purchaser is a not-for-profit corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State
of South Carolina, validly existing, and in good standing under the laws of the State of South Carolina.

                  The execution, delivery, and performance of this Agreement by Purchaser and all
agreements, instruments, and documents herein provided to be executed by Purchaser on the Closing Date:
(i) do not violate the articles of organization of Purchaser, or any contract, agreement, commitment, lease,
order, judgment, or decree to which Purchaser is a party; and (ii) have been duly authorized by the consent
of the members of Purchaser and the appropriate and necessary action has been taken by such members
on the part of Purchaser. This Agreement is valid and binding upon Purchaser, subject to bankruptcy,
reorganization and other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors’ rights generally.

                 Purchaser has not violated any contract, agreement, or other instrument to which
Purchaser is a party nor any judicial order, judgment, or decree to which Purchaser is bound by: (i) entering
into this Agreement; (ii) executing any of the documents Purchaser is obligated to execute and deliver on


the Closing Date or (iii) performing any of its duties or obligations under this Agreement or otherwise
necessary to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

                 There are no actions, lawsuits, litigation, or proceedings pending or threatened in any
court or before any governmental or regulatory agency that affect Purchaser’s power or authority to enter
into or perform this Agreement. There are no judgments, orders, or decrees of any kind against Purchaser
unpaid or unsatisfied of record, or, to the best of Purchaser’s knowledge, threatened against Purchaser,
which would have any material adverse effect on the business or assets or the condition, financial or
otherwise, of Purchaser or the ability of Purchaser to consummate the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement.

                Except for the express representations and warranties of Seller found in herein and in the
Closing Documents, Purchaser is acquiring the Property on an “AS IS, WHERE IS” basis, without any
representation or warranty of any kind or nature whatsoever, express or implied, and Purchaser
acknowledges that no such representations or warranties have been made except as set forth in writing
herein and in the Closing Documents.

                  Purchaser is not, and will not become, a person or entity with whom United States persons
or entities are restricted or prohibited from doing business under regulations of OFAC (including those
named on OFAC’s Specially Designated and Blocked Persons List) or under any statute, executive order
(including the September 24, 2001, Executive Order Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions With
Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism), or other governmental action and is
not and will not engage in any dealings or transactions or be otherwise associated with such persons or
entities.

                 Purchaser has not dealt with any broker in connection with this transaction.


                          ENCUMBRANCES; MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS

         Encumbrances. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, until the Closing or
earlier termination of this Agreement, Seller shall not, without Purchaser’s prior written consent (which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed), encumber or create any liens or enter
into any lease encumbering any part of the Property.

        Maintenance and Repairs. Seller shall cause the Property to be maintained in substantially the
same manner as prior to the date of this Agreement pursuant to Seller’s normal course of business, subject
to reasonable wear.


                                               RISK OF LOSS

        Risk of Loss. Risk of loss shall remain with Seller prior to the Closing Date. If, prior to the Closing
Date any material portion of the Property shall be taken by condemnation or eminent domain or damaged
or destroyed by fire or other casualty, Purchaser shall have the right to terminate this Agreement.


                                                 NOTICES

        Delivery of Notices. Unless specifically stated otherwise in this Agreement, all notices, demands,
consents, approvals, waivers, or other communications (for purposes of this Section 8.01 collectively
referred to as “Notices”) shall be in writing and delivered to Purchaser, Seller, or Escrow Agent, at the
addresses set forth in Section 8.02, by one of the following methods:


                personal delivery, whereby delivery is deemed to have occurred at the time of delivery;

                overnight delivery by a nationally recognized overnight courier company, whereby
delivery is deemed to have occurred the Business Day following deposit with the courier;

               registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, whereby delivery is
deemed to have occurred on the third Business Day following deposit with the United States Postal Service;
or

                electronic transmission (facsimile or email) provided that such transmission is completed
no later than 5:00 pm on a Business Day and the original is also sent by personal delivery, overnight
delivery or by mail in the manner previously described, whereby delivery is deemed to have occurred at
the end of the Business Day on which the electronic transmission is completed.

        Parties’ Addresses.

              Unless changed in accordance with Section 8.02(b) of this Agreement, the addresses for all
communications and notices shall be as follows:

                        Seller
                        Chester County, South Carolina
                        Attention: County Administrator
                        Post Office Box 580
                        Chester, South Carolina 29706

                                With a copy to (does not constitute notice)
                                Chester County, South Carolina
                                Attention: County Attorney
                                Post Office Box 580
                                Chester, South Carolina 29706

                                With a copy to (does not constitute notice)
                                Michael E Kozlarek, Esq.
                                Kozlarek Root Law LLC
                                Post Office Box 565
                                Greenville, South Carolina 29602

                        Purchaser
                        Chester County Commission on Alcohol and Drug Abuse
                        d/b/a Hazel Pittman Center
                        130 Hudson Street
                        Chester, South Carolina 29706
                        Attn: Kristin Gibson

                                With a copy to (does not constitute notice)
                                []
                                []
                                []
                                []

                Any party may, by notice given in accordance with this Article, designate a different
address or person for receipt of all communications or notices.

                Any notice under this Agreement may be given by the attorneys of the respective parties


who are hereby authorized to do so on their behalf.


                                               REMEDIES

        Remedies.

                 If Purchaser shall default in the observance or performance of Purchaser’s obligations
under this Agreement and the Closing does not occur as a result thereof (a “Purchaser Default”), Seller’s
sole and exclusive remedy shall be to retain the Deposit, as and for full and complete liquidated and agreed
damages for Purchaser’s Default, and the parties shall be released from further liability to each other
hereunder, except for those obligations and liabilities that are expressly stated to survive termination of
this Agreement. SELLER AND PURCHASER AGREE THAT IT WOULD BE IMPRACTICAL AND
EXTREMELY DIFFICULT TO ESTIMATE THE DAMAGES WHICH SELLER MAY SUFFER UPON A
PURCHASER DEFAULT AND THAT THE DEPOSIT AND ANY INTEREST EARNED THEREON, AS
THE CASE MAY BE, REPRESENTS A REASONABLE ESTIMATE OF THE TOTAL NET DETRIMENT
THAT SELLER WOULD SUFFER UPON A PURCHASER DEFAULT. SUCH LIQUIDATED AND
AGREED DAMAGES ARE NOT INTENDED AS A FORFEITURE OR A PENALTY WITHIN THE
MEANING OF APPLICABLE LAW.

                 If Seller shall default in the observance or performance of any of the terms of this
Agreement, and Purchaser is ready, willing, and able to close in accordance with the terms, provisions, and
conditions of this Agreement and the Closing does not occur as a result thereof, Purchaser’s remedies shall
be as stated in Section 4.04 hereof and, in addition, Purchaser is entitled to the remedy of specific
performance.

                 Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision in this Agreement, a grossly
negligent or intentional breach of Purchaser’s or Seller’s representations, warranties, or covenants, made
under Article V of this Agreement shall entitle the other party to a recovery of its out-of-pocket expenses
incurred in connection with this Agreement. This provision shall survive the termination of this
Agreement.

                 Upon the release of the Deposit to either Purchaser or Seller, as the case may be, this
Agreement shall be deemed null and void and no party hereto shall have any obligations to, or rights
against, the other hereunder, except as expressly provided herein.

                The provisions of this Article shall survive the Closing or termination of this Agreement.

                 If any legal action is instituted under this Agreement, the prevailing party in such action
shall be entitled to recover from the other party costs related to such legal action, including reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs in all trial, appellate, post-judgment, and bankruptcy proceedings.


                                                ESCROW

        Escrow Terms. Escrow Agent shall hold and disburse the Deposit in accordance with the following
provisions:

                 Escrow Agent shall have the right, but not the obligation, to invest the Deposit in savings
accounts, treasury bills, certificates of deposits and/or in other money market instruments approved by
Seller, or in funds investing in any of the foregoing, and shall not be liable for any losses suffered in
connection with any such investment.

                If the Closing occurs, then Escrow Agent shall deliver the Deposit to Seller.


                 If for any reason the Closing does not occur and either party makes a written demand upon
Escrow Agent for payment of the Deposit, Escrow Agent shall give written notice to the other party of such
demand. If Escrow Agent does not receive a written objection from the other party to the proposed payment
within five Business Days after the giving of such notice, Escrow Agent is hereby authorized to make such
payment. If Escrow Agent does receive such written objection within such five Business Day period or if
for any other reason Escrow Agent in good faith shall elect not to make such payment, Escrow Agent shall
continue to hold such amount until otherwise directed by written instructions from the parties to this
Agreement or a final judgment in court. However, Escrow Agent shall have the right at any time to deposit
the Deposit and interest thereon, if any, with a court of competent jurisdiction. Escrow Agent shall give
written notice of such deposit to Seller and Purchaser. Upon such deposit, Escrow Agent shall be relieved
and discharged of all further obligations and responsibilities hereunder.

        Escrow Agent’s Duties and Responsibilities.

                  Escrow Agent has signed this Agreement for the sole purpose of agreeing to act as Escrow
Agent in accordance with this Article. Escrow Agent shall have no duties or responsibilities except those
set forth in this Agreement and Seller and Purchaser agree and acknowledge that Escrow Agent shall act
hereunder as a depository only. Provided however, Purchaser acknowledges that Escrow Agent also serves
as legal counsel for Purchaser.

                Escrow Agent shall be protected in relying upon the accuracy, acting in reliance upon the
contents, and assuming the genuineness of any notice, demand, certificate, signature, instrument, or other
document which is given to Escrow Agent without verifying the truth or accuracy of any such notice,
demand, certificate, signature, instrument, or other document.

                 The parties acknowledge that Escrow Agent is acting solely as a stakeholder at their
request and for their convenience, that the duties of the Escrow Agent hereunder are purely ministerial in
nature and shall be expressly limited to the safekeeping and disposition of the Deposit in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement. Escrow Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted by
Escrow Agent in good faith and believed by Escrow Agent to be authorized or within its rights or powers
conferred upon it by this Agreement, except for any damage caused by Escrow Agent’s own gross
negligence or willful default. Escrow Agent shall not have any liability or obligation for loss of all or any
portion of the Deposit by reason of the insolvency or failure of the institution of depository with whom the
escrow account is maintained. Upon the disbursement of the Deposit in accordance with this Agreement,
Escrow Agent shall be relieved and released from any liability under this Agreement, except in connection
with Escrow Agent’s gross negligence or willful misconduct.

                  In the event that a dispute shall arise in connection with this Agreement, or as to the rights
of the parties in and to, or the disposition of, the Deposit, Escrow Agent shall have the right to: (i) hold and
retain all or any part of the Deposit until such dispute is settled or finally determined by litigation,
arbitration, or otherwise; (ii) deposit the Deposit in an appropriate court of law, following which Escrow
Agent shall thereby and thereafter be relieved and released from any liability or obligation under this
Agreement; (iii) institute an action in interpleader or other similar action permitted by stakeholders in the
State of South Carolina; or (iv) interplead any of the parties in any action or proceeding which may be
brought to determine the rights of the parties to all or any part of the Deposit.

                 Escrow Agent shall not charge a fee for its services as escrow agent.

               All costs and expenses incurred by Escrow Agent in performing its duties as the Escrow
Agent including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys’ fees (whether paid to retained attorneys or
amounts representing the fair value of legal services rendered to or for itself) shall be borne 100% by
Purchaser, except however, if any litigation arises under this Agreement with respect to the Deposit, all
costs and expenses of the litigation shall be borne by whichever of Seller or Purchaser is the losing party.


                Escrow Agent has acknowledged agreement to these provisions by signing in the place
indicated on the signature page of this Agreement.

        Hold Harmless Escrow Agent. Seller and Purchaser hereby agree, jointly and severally, to hold
harmless Escrow Agent from and against any liabilities, damages, losses, costs, or expenses incurred by, or
claims or charges made against Escrow Agent (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and disbursements) by
reason of Escrow Agent acting or failing to act in connection with any of the matters contemplated by this
Agreement or in carrying out the terms of this Agreement, except for those matters arising as a result of
Escrow Agent’s gross negligence or willful misconduct.

        Purchaser’s Attorney as Escrow Agent. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein
contained, Seller acknowledges that Escrow Agent is also acting as Purchaser’s counsel in connection with
this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereunder. Seller further acknowledges and agrees that
the Escrow Agent may represent Purchaser, as Purchaser’s counsel, in any action, suit, or other proceeding
between Seller and Purchaser or in which Seller and Purchaser may be involved.

        Survival. This Article shall survive the Closing or the termination of this Agreement.


                                               [RESERVED]


                                                 BROKERS

         Brokers. Purchaser and Seller each represent and warrant to each other that they dealt with no
broker in connection with, nor has any broker had any part in bringing about, this transaction. Seller and
Purchaser shall each, hold harmless the other from and against any claim of any broker or other person for
any brokerage commissions, finder’s fees, or other compensation in connection with this transaction if such
claim is based in whole or in part by, through, or on account of, any acts of the indemnifying party or its
agents, employees, or representatives and from all losses, liabilities, costs, and expenses in connection with
such claim, including without limitation, reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, and interest.

      Survival. The provisions of this Article XII shall survive the Closing or the termination of this
Agreement prior to the Closing.


                                            MISCELLANEOUS

         Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of
the State of South Carolina. Venue for any legal proceedings will be Chester County.

         Merger; No Representations. This Agreement constitutes the sole and entire agreement of the
parties to this Agreement with respect to the subject matter contained herein and supersedes all prior and
contemporaneous understandings and agreements, both written and oral, with respect to such subject
matter. This Agreement is entered into after full investigation, no party is relying upon any statement or
representation, not set forth in this Agreement, made by any other party.

        No Survival. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, no representations, warranties,
covenants, or other obligations of Seller set forth in this Agreement shall survive the Closing and no action
based thereon shall be commenced after the Closing.

        Limitation of Liability.

                No individual officer, Council member, employee, agent, attorney, successor, or assign of


Seller, shall have any personal liability, directly or indirectly, under or in connection with this Agreement
or any agreement made or entered into under or pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement or any
amendment or amendments to any of the foregoing made at any time or times, heretofore and hereafter,
and Purchaser and its successors and assigns and, without limitation all other persons and entities, shall
look solely to Seller’s assets for the payment of any claim or for any performance and Purchaser, on behalf
of itself and its successors and assigns, hereby waives any and all such personal liability.

                 No officer, director, employee, attorney, successor, assign, or agent of Purchaser, shall have
any personal liability, directly or indirectly, under or in connection with this Agreement or any agreement
made or entered into under or pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, or any amendment or
amendments to any of the foregoing made at any time or times, heretofore or hereafter, and Seller and its
successors and assigns and, without limitations, all other persons and entities, shall look solely to
Purchaser’s assets for the payment of any claim or for any performance, and Seller, on behalf of itself and
its successors and assigns, hereby waives any and all such personal liability.

        Business Days. Whenever any action must be taken (including the giving of notices) under this
Agreement during a certain time period (or by a particular date) that ends or occurs on a non-business day,
then such period (or date) shall be extended until the next succeeding Business Day. As used herein, the
term “Business Day” shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday on which
national banks are not open for general business in the State of South Carolina.

       Modifications and Amendments. This Agreement cannot under any circumstance be modified or
amended orally and no agreement shall be effective to waive, change, modify, terminate, or discharge this
Agreement, in whole or in part, unless such agreement is in writing and is signed by both Seller and
Purchaser.

        No Recording. Neither this Agreement, nor any memorandum of this Agreement, shall be
recorded. The recording of this Agreement, or any memorandum of this Agreement, by Purchaser shall
constitute a material default and shall entitle Seller to retain the Deposit and any interest earned thereon.

         Successors and Assigns; Assignment. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to
the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs or successors and permitted assigns. Purchaser
may not assign or otherwise transfer this Agreement, or any of its rights or obligations hereunder, without
the prior written consent of Seller, which consent may be withheld in Seller’s sole discretion. Any purported
assignment without Seller’s consent shall be void and of no force or effect. Any change in control of
Purchaser or of any of the direct or indirect ownership interests in Purchaser, at any level or tier of
ownership, whether in one transaction or a series of transactions, shall constitute an assignment for
purposes of this Section.

         Severability. If any term or provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any
jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality, or unenforceability shall not affect, invalidate, or render
unenforceable any other term or provision of this Agreement. Upon such determination that any term or
other provision is invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify
this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in a mutually acceptable
manner in order that the transactions contemplated by this Agreement be consummated as originally
contemplated to the greatest extent possible.

        Further Assurances. Each of the parties hereto shall execute and deliver such additional
documents, instruments, conveyances, and assurances and take such further actions as may be reasonably
required to carry out the provisions of this Agreement and give effect to the transactions contemplated
hereby, provided such documents are customarily delivered in real estate transactions in the State of South
Carolina and do not impose any material obligations upon any party hereunder except as set forth in this
Agreement.


        Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed by the parties in separate counterparts, each of
which when so executed and delivered shall be an original for all purposes, but all such counterparts shall
together constitute but one and the same instrument.

        Headings. The captions or paragraph titles contained in this Agreement are for convenience and
reference only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of this Agreement.

         No Waivers. No waiver by any party of any of the provisions hereof shall be effective unless
explicitly set forth in writing and signed by the party providing the waiver. No waiver by either party of
any failure or refusal to comply with any obligations under this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of
any other or subsequent failure or refusal to so comply.

        No Offer. This Agreement shall not be deemed an offer or binding upon Seller or Purchaser until
this Agreement is fully executed and delivered by Seller and Purchaser.

         Time of the Essence. The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that, except as otherwise expressly
provided in this Agreement, TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE for the performance of all actions (including,
without limitation, the giving of Notices, the delivery of documents, and the funding of money) required
or permitted to be taken under this Agreement. Whenever action must be taken (including, without
limitation, the giving of Notice, the delivery of documents, or the funding of money) under this Agreement,
prior to the expiration of, by no later than, or on a particular date, unless otherwise expressly provided in
this Agreement, such action must be completed by 5:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on such date. However,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, whenever action must be taken (including, without
limitation, the giving of Notice, the delivery of documents, or the funding of money) under this Agreement
prior to the expiration of, by no later than, or on a particular date that is not a Business Day, then such date
shall be extended until the immediately following Business Day.

                                     [ONE SIGNATURE PAGE AND TWO EXHIBITS FOLLOW]
                                       [REMAINDER OF PAGE SUBSTANTIVELY BLANK]


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date first written
above.
                                                 SELLER:
                                                 CHESTER COUNTY, SOUTH CAROLINA,
                                                 a South Carolina body political and political
                                                 subdivision

                                                    By: ______________________

                                                    Name:____________________

                                                    Title: ____________________



                                                    PURCHASER:
                                                    [Hazel Pittman]
                                                    By: _____________________

                                                    Name: ___________________

                                                    Title: ____________________




 ESCROW AGENT:
 GASTON, MARION, STUBBS, HUNTER &
 SWANCY, P.A.,
 as Escrow Agent
 By: _____________________

 Name: ___________________

 Title: ____________________


EXHIBIT A
FORM OF LIMITED WARRANTY DEED

[SEE ATTACHED]


Return to:
[]
[]
[]
                                                                                       GRANTEE’S ADDRESS:
                                                                                       []
                                                                                       []
 STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA                       )
                                               )                    LIMITED WARRANTY DEED
 COUNTY OF []                                  )

     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned, [] (“Grantor”) in consideration of the
sum of [] Dollars ($[]) and no other monetary consideration to Grantor, the receipt and adequacy of which
is hereby acknowledged, have granted, bargained, sold and released, and by these presents does grant,
bargain, sell and release unto [] (“Grantee”), its heirs and assigns forever, all right, title and interest in and
to the following described property, to wit:

         All that certain, piece, parcel or lot of land, with building thereon, lying and being in the
         []

         DERIVATION: This being the same property [].

         [] County Tax Map No.: []

This conveyance is made subject to easements, rights-of-ways and restrictions of record, on an recorded
plat, or on the subject premises.

    TO HAVE AND TO HOLD all and singular the above-described parcels of and premises, together with
all and singular the rights, members, hereditaments, improvements, easements and appurtenances
thereunto belonging or in anyway appertaining (collectively the “Premises”) unto Grantees, their heirs and
assigns, forever.

   Grantor does hereby bind himself and his heirs to warrant and forever defend all and singular said
premises unto Grantees and Grantees’ heirs and assigns against Grantor and Grantor’s heirs and assigns.

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the execution of this Limited Warranty Deed as of [] [], 2026.

 WITNESSES:                                            SELLER:
                                                       []
 (1)__________________________
                                                       By: _________________________________
 (2)__________________________
                                                       Name:_______________________________

                                                       Title: ________________________________


 STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA                          )
                                                  )                        ACKNOWLEDGMENT
 COUNTY OF []                                     )

I, the undersigned, a notary public for the State and County aforesaid, do hereby certify that [], as the [] of
the [], personally appeared before me this day and acknowledged the due execution of the foregoing
instrument.

        WITNESS my hand and seal as of [] []. 2026.


                                                                                                      (Seal)
                                                   Notary Public of the State of South Carolina

                                                   My Commission Expires:


EXHIBIT B
UPDATED SURVEY

[TO BE PROVIDED AND ATTACHED PURSUANT TO SECTION 4.03(A)(I)]


Planning Commission

Chester County, SC
June 16%, 2026

Staff Report

Case: CCMA26-05

TM #081-00-00-121-000
Off of Columbia Road
Chester, SC

Summary of Application

Location: Tax Map # 081-00-00-121-000

Applicant: — Level 3 Communications, LLC

Request: To rezone a 4.24 acre parcel from R-2 to ID-1
in order to construct telecommunications
equipment.

Staff Recommendation: APPROVE

Consistency with Comprehensive Plan

In the 2025 Comprehensive Plan, this parcel is near the Rural
Heritage, County Live/Work, and Urban Growth and Infill
Character Areas.

This project would be to install an unmanned inline
amplification system that will boost the fiber optic network in
the area. This system would be used for internet, telephone,
and data networks. It will consist of a 9,900 sq. fi. gravel
compound with two equipment shelters on concrete pads, as
well as two generators. A new gravel driveway will provide
access from the main road.

Future expansion would include an additional 18,000 sq ft
gravel compound.

The generators would be used for emergency power only, and
would generate 76 decibels of noise at 23 feet. The nearest
house is approximately 420 feet away, meaning that the total
sound level would be roughly 50-60 decibels when the
generators are activated.

Exterior lighting would be cut-off and fully shielded.



Chester County, South Carolina

Department of Planning & Development
1476 JA Cochran Bypass
Chester, SC 29706

Zoning Map Amendment Application
Fee: Residential: $150; Non-Residential: $300; Planned Development: $1,000

STAFF USE Meeting Date: b-lb : y45 Case Number: CCMA 16°05 tsisice Number: 10922
ONLY

APPLICANT INSTRUCTIONS: Complete this application, and return it, a copy of the most recent survey of the property in

question, any other required supporting information, and the application fee to the Chester County Planning Department.
Incomplete applications will be returned to the applicant. If you have any questions, pkase coutact the Planning Department at

Property Address: off of Columbia Road, Chester, SC 29706
Tax Map Number: 081-00-00-121-000

Current Zoning: R2 (Rural Two) Requested Zoning: Area (in acres): ID-| (Restricted Industrial)

Please give your reason for this rezoning request:

We are requesting the rezoning of 4.24 acres for the expansion of telecommunications infrastructure.
This includes new shelter foundations, prefabricated equipment shelters, fencing, generators, and
necessary utilities, with no external lighting to be installed. This expansion is essential for improving
celecommunications services in the area while ensuring minimal environmental impact.

Contact Information: Property Owner Applicant
Name: Marion & Stubbs Farms, LLC Agent of Level 3 Communications LLC
Address: PO BOX 608 11720 Amber Park Dr #600

CHESTER, SC 29706
Phone
Phone Number: Email:

City, State, & Zip Code: Alpharetta, GA 30009

Email Address:

aan
Date: 4 1é ZL Owner signature: 7
t t a

I (we) certify that the information in this application is correct.

fi
Date: 04/15/2026 Applicant signature: Sa



@) Chester County, SC

Parcel ID 081-00-00-121-000
Sec/Twp/Rng n/a

Property Address

District n/a
Brief Tax Description n/a

(Note: Not to be used on legal documents)
Date created: 4/30/2026
Last Data Uploaded: 4/30/2026 2:10:08 AM

Decl bygg SCHNEIDER

GEOSPATIAL

Alternate ID n/a

Class
Acreage

n/a
n/a

Owner Address n/a


Print Date: 04/30/2026

Property Information

Chester County Assessor 2027 Property Information

Page 1 of 1

Map Number: 081-00-00-121-000

CBE170/P- 10

Plat Book/Page:

Tax Exempt: No

Physical Address:

Parcel Type: Real Deed Book/Page: 1469/22 Districts/Areas
Description: Tract 1 = 4.24 Ac Type Code Description
Fire Code sc South Chester
School District csD Chester School District
Tax District 02 02
Zoning Code R2 Rural 2

Owner(s) of Record (2027)

Owner of Record Mailing Address New Owner Mailing Address Ownership Type | Ownership% | Taxpayer
Marion & Stubbs Farms LLC Limited Liability 100% Yes
PO Box 608 Corporation

Chester SC 29706

Taxable Value Summary (2027!

Class Lots Acres Land Value | Land Buildings | Buliding Buliding Total Value Total

Assessed Value Assessed Assessed

RL-Residential Lot 0.00 4.24 0 0 0 0 0 0
Market Value 0.00 4.24 0 0 0 0 0 0
Tax Value 0.00 4.24 0 0 0 0 0 0
Sales Histo!

Sale Date Sale Price Vacant or Improved | Deed Book/Page Grantee (Buyer) Grantor (Seller)

06/28/2024 $1 Improved 1469/22 Marion & Stubbs Farms LLC Gaston Gaston & Marion P A
01/28/1988 $0 Improved 546/75 Gaston Gaston & Marion P A



Building & Zoning Department
1476 J A Cochran Bypass
Chester, SC 29706

Phone: (803) 581-0942

Fax: (855) 930-0979

Issued to:

Receipt No. 10922

Christopher Strange
Kimley-Horn

11720 Amber Park Dr #600
Alpharetta, GA 30009

Payment Items

Date 05/07/2026

Cashier ichappell

Form of Payment

Map Amendment Rezoning Application

$300.00

$300.00

Check 002166

Service Fee

Thank you for your payment.

$300.00
$300.00








































































































Partnership Agreement
For TextMyGov Applications and Services



Prepared for:

Chester County, SC
1476 J A Cochran Bypass, Chester, SC 29706,
USA
Population: 32226
Prepared by:

Abel Arnljots-Tlatelpa
TextMyGov


Introducing TextMyGov
TextMyGov was developed to open lines of communication with local government agencies and citizens.
The system works 24 hours a day and easily connects with your website and other communication
methods.
Using the regular messaging app on any smartphone, the smart texting technology allows the citizen to
ask questions and get immediate responses, find links to information on the agency’s website, address
problems, report any issues and upload photos.
According to the Pew Research Center, 97% of smartphone owners text regularly.
The technology analysts at Compuware reported that 80 to 90% of all downloaded apps are only used
once and then eventually deleted by users.

                                                                                       Agreement ID 260179


         Communicate
TextMyGov uses smart texting technology to communicate with citizens. Local government agencies can
answer questions, send links to their website, and provide details on garbage pickup, utility payments, city
news, events, office hours, just to name a few.

         Engage
TextMyGov uses smart texting technology to engage with citizens. Citizens can easily report issues to any
department, such as potholes, drainage problems, tall grass, junk cars. The issue reporting function can be
customized for each department and their most commonly reported items. Agencies can engage citizens and
ask specific guided questions regarding location, address, street name, and more. If your goal is to engage
with citizens and get smart valuable data- You need TextMyGov.

         Boost Website Traffic
TextMyGov uses smart texting technology to maximize a city's website. Citizens can text in keywords like
festival, parking, ticketing, meeting, sporting event, etc. The smart texting technology can answer the question
or send a link from the city’s website with additional information. Local government agencies spend
thousands of dollars each year on their website. TextMyGov is the best way to benefit from that investment.
If your goal is to benefit from your website investment- You need TextMyGov.

         Track
TextMyGov uses smart texting technology to track and record all the information that is sent in. Agencies can
track the cell phone number, date, and time of every request. If your agency wants to be compliant with FOIA-
You need TextMyGov.

         Work
Smart texting uses detailed information to track a citizen’s request or create a work order. Work orders and
requests can be generated and completed. Smart texting allows you to easily collect information like name,
location, street address, and allows the user to upload a photo. If your agency wants to track real requests
and real work orders submitted by a real cell phone number- You need TextMyGov.




 Org ID: 83866                                  TextMyGov                                     Deal ID: 43967
                                      P.O. Box 3784, Logan, UT 84323


Getting Started
   •   After the execution of the Agreement Confirmation page, a project manager will be assigned to assist
       the client through implementation. A local phone number will be obtained for use with TextMyGov.

Configuration
   •   The project manager will work with the client to customize interactive responses, create automation
       flows, and keyword lists. Training will be provided on how to quickly create and edit data.

Media Kit
   •   Advertising materials will be provided to the client, including an infographic for the website and
       downloadable flyer for social media and other communication methods used by the agency.

Unlimited Training and Support
   •   After initial implementation and training, unlimited on-going support is included.
         Our experts are available M-F 6am-5pm MST.




This quote represents a subscription to TextMyGov with an annual recurring charge for an initial period of 3-
Year(s) (the “Initial Term”). The agreement is set to automatically renew on the anniversary date of this
agreement, after the Initial Term. Support and service fees may increase following the Initial Term but will
increase no more than 5% per year. See below for package price and other details.

Terms and conditions can be printed and attached as Exhibit A or viewed at www.TextMyGov.com/terms




 Org ID: 83866                                   TextMyGov                                     Deal ID: 43967
                                       P.O. Box 3784, Logan, UT 84323


                                  APPENDIX A
                   APPLICATIONS, SERVICES AND PRICING SCHEDULE




                THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




Org ID: 83866                       TextMyGov                    Deal ID: 43967
                          P.O. Box 3784, Logan, UT 84323


Standard Billing Terms
Recurring Fees:

 Standard Invoice Date                  Amount                 Invoice Purpose                 First Year Service Period
   30 Days Prior to the Period          $2,800.00                 Annual Invoice                   08-01-2026 - 07-31-2027
              Start


Setup Fees

 Standard Invoice Date                  Amount                 Invoice Purpose                 First Year Service Period
   30 Days Prior to the Period          $1,400.00           Agreement Setup Amount                    60 Days after Kickoff
              Start


Annual Subscription Fees

 Application        Classification          Application Name                                   Standard              Agreement
 ID                                                                                               Pricing                 Pricing

 TMG-1              ​                       TextMyGov Core                                     $2,800.00               $2,800.00

                        Subscription Fee Total (This amount will be invoiced each year)                              $2,800.00


One-Time Setup

                          Service(s)                                                   Agreement Pricing

 Implementation/Setup Fee (Year 1)                                                                                     ​$1,400.00



                                                                Recurring Agreement Pricing                            ​$2,800.00​

                                                                               Agreement Setup                         ​$1,400.00​

                                                                          Total Due Year 1                           ​$4,200.00​


NOTES
  I.   This is a 3-Year Agreement. Either Party may terminate this agreement at the end of the Initial Term by providing the
       other part with written notice of termination at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the initial term. If Customer



Org ID: 83866                                          TextMyGov                                                Deal ID: 43967
                                             P.O. Box 3784, Logan, UT 84323


      terminates the agreement the remaining balance for the Initial Term, if any, will be immediately due and payable. After
      the Initial Term, this agreement will automatically renew for successive one (1) year terms ("Renewal Term") unless
      either party provides written notice of non-renewal at least sixty (60) days before the expiration of the then-current
      term. Should Customer terminate the agreement within the sixty-day period before the expiration of the Initial Term or
      any Renewal Term, Customer will be obligated to pay the total balance due for the subsequent Renewal Term.
 II. Customer will be invoiced on an annual basis. Invoices will be sent by mail and email to the addresses listed on the
      Agreement Confirmation page below. Annual invoices will be dated and sent 30 days prior to the period start date each
      year. Payment is due within 30 days from the date of the invoice.
 III. Customer is required to put TextMyGov widget on the Agency's Web Home page.
 IV. This agreement must be signed and returned by 7/10/2026.
 V. Customer is authorized to enter into this agreement and by signing the Agreement Confirmation, agrees to all terms
      herein and all Terms and conditions listed above.
 VI. Customer is required to provide copy of W-9.




Org ID: 83866                                      TextMyGov                                              Deal ID: 43967
                                         P.O. Box 3784, Logan, UT 84323


                                                        APPENDIX B
                                                    PRODUCT DESCRIPTIONS

Application / Feature                        Core                             EMA                          Premium
TextMyGov Web-Based                             x                               x                                x
Software (Poll Workers Only)
Local Phone Number                              x                               x                                x
Short Code Number (for                          x                               x                                x
outgiong messages)
Facebook Integration                            x                               x                                x
Spanish Translation                             x                               x                                x
Unlimited Users                                 x                               x                                x
Unlimited Departments                           x                               x                                x
Unlimited Support for Every                     x                               x                                x
User
10 GB Managed online data                       x                               x                                x
storage
25,000 Text Messages Per                        x                               x                                x
Year
IPAWS Integrations                                                              x                                x
NOAA/Weather Alerts                                                             x                                x
Enhanced Media Care Package                                                                                      x
Citizen Surveys*                                                                                                 x
Voice Calls                                                                                                      x
Mass Emailing                                                                                                    x

* The Citizen Surveys add-on allows municipalities to collect feedback from residents via SMS, Email, or Social Media. This
feature enables automated survey distribution, real-time response tracking, and data insights to enhance community
engagement.




 Org ID: 83866                                         TextMyGov                                              Deal ID: 43967
                                             P.O. Box 3784, Logan, UT 84323


   TextMyGov provides additional applications and services that can be purchased as part of the TextMyGov
                solution. These can be added to the customer's annual cost, upon request.

Service                                                                              Pricing          Cycle
EMA Package                                                        Price based on Population         Annual
  • Core Package
  • IPAWS Integrations
  • NOAA/Weather Alerts

Premium Package                                                    Price based on Population         Annual
   • Core Package
   • EMA Package
   • Enhanced Media Care Package
   • Citizen Surveys
         • The Citizen Surveys add-on allows municipalities
            to collect feedback from residents via SMS,
            Email, or Social Media. This feature enables
            automated survey distribution, real-time
            response tracking, and data insights to enhance
            community engagement.
   • Voice Calls
   • Mass Emailing

Citizen Requests                                                   Price based on Population         Annual

Monthly Uploads                                                    Price based on Population         Annual

Additional Storage - Each unit of storage contains an                                   $250         Annual
additional 100GB.

Additional Text Messages - Additional text messages can be         Price based on amount of          Annual
purchased at any time. ($900 for 100,000), ($600 for 50,000),                 text messages
($350 for 25,000). Unlimited texts are available as well. See
your Account Executive for details.

Unlimited Text Messages                                             Price basd on Population         Annual




Org ID: 83866                                 TextMyGov                                     Deal ID: 43967
                                    P.O. Box 3784, Logan, UT 84323


                                  Agreement Confirmation




                             Implementation Team Information

                      Name ​

                       Title ​

                      Email ​

                Office Phone ​

     Cell Phone (Required) ​



                             Implementation Team Information

                      Name ​

                       Title ​

                      Email ​

                Office Phone ​

     Cell Phone (Required) ​



                                      Billing Information

  (Invoices for the amount will be sent two weeks after signature with net 30 days. Invoices
                         will be sent from an iWorQ email address.)

      Billing Contact Name ​



Org ID: 83866                              TextMyGov                            Deal ID: 43967
                                 P.O. Box 3784, Logan, UT 84323


                                                 Billing Information

                             Title ​

                            Email ​

                  Office Phone ​

                         Address ​

                Tax Exempt ID ​

         * Note: If a tax-exempt number is not provided, a 10% service increase will be added to the yearly invoice.



                                                Agreement Signature

                           Name ​

                             Title ​

                             Date ​

                      Signature

                                      ​                                                                                   ​



                                                    Widget Contact

                           Name ​

                             Title ​

                            Email ​

                           Phone ​

*This person is responsible for placing the TextMyGov widget (see options- TextMyGov/Widget Link) on the agency's website
within 60 days of the agreement signature. The TextMyGov widget will remain on the agency's website for the duration of the
  agreement. If the widget is not placed on the City/County website within 60 days, the Agency agrees to pay an additional
                               $1,000 towards setup costs (this is to cover TextMyGov's time.)



Org ID: 83866                                       TextMyGov                                              Deal ID: 43967
                                          P.O. Box 3784, Logan, UT 84323


                                    Twilio Contact Authorization




                                     Twilio Authorized Contact (1)

             Employee Name ​

                  Job Position ​

                         Email ​

              Phone Number ​

                 Business Title ​



                                     Twilio Authorized Contact (2)

             Employee Name ​

                  Job Position ​

                         Email ​

              Phone Number ​

                 Business Title ​


    I confirm that my nominated authorized representatives agree to be contacted by Twilio.

**Twilio contact can be the same as the implementation contact. Twilio requires us to have two authorized
contacts. They rarely reach out, but if there are any support questions, they require these contacts. **

                                          Provide your W-9:




 Org ID: 83866                                TextMyGov                                   Deal ID: 43967
                                    P.O. Box 3784, Logan, UT 84323










