                    WILLIAMS COUNTY
             BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                          ORDINANCE NO. 2024-01-02
TITLE:        AN ORDINANCE AMENDING 2015 ZONING ORDINANCES: ADDING
              REGULATIONS FOR DATA CENTERS

       WHEREAS, the Williams County Board of County Commissioners (hereinafter “the
Board”), pursuant to the Williams County Home Rule Charter and North Dakota Century Code
Chapter 11-33 and Chapter 11-33.2, adopted the Williams County Zoning Ordinance and
Subdivision Regulations on September 15, 2015, and thereafter have adopted amendments thereto,
with the most recent amendments having been adopted on August 2, 2022 (hereinafter “2015
Zoning Ordinance”);

        WHEREAS, the 2015 Zoning Ordinance, Article 3, Chapter 3-6, authorizes the Board
from time to time on its own motion, or on the recommendation of the Williams County Plarming
and Zoning Commission (“PZ Commission”) to amend, supplement, repeal or revise any provision
of the 2015 Zoning Ordinance;

        WHEREAS, the Board directed Williams County Plarming and Zoning staff to draft, or
cause to have drafted, regulations for data centers within Williams County;

       WHEREAS, the proposed data centers regulations were presented to the PZ Commission
for consideration at its meeting held on December 21, 2023, at which time the PZ Commission
recommended adoption of the proposed data center regulations as presented;

        WHEREAS, at its meeting held on January 2, 2024, the Board considered the proposed
data center regulations presented to it, including the PZ Commission’s recommendation to adopt
the data center regulations as presented; and

       WHEREAS, a motion to adopt the proposed data center regulations as presented, having
been made and seconded,was submitted to a roll call vote of the elected members of the Board
and passed by majority roll call vote of the Board members present.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by majority roll call vote of the Williams
County Board of County Commissioners present at the meeting on January 2, 2024, the following
data center regulations are hereby adopted as amendments to the Williams County Zoning
Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations adopted on September 15, 2015, as amended:

1.     Article 2, Chapter 2-8, Section 2-8-3(3): Section 2-8-3(3) (“Conditional Industrial Uses”)
       shall be amended to add a new subsection for Data centers as an additional Conditional
       Industrial Use under Section 2-8-3(3) as follows:

          w. Data centers (See Ch. 6-16 for standards)


                                          Page 1 of 7
Article 5, Chapter 5-3§14), Table 5-1: Table 5-1 (“Parking and Loading Loading Areas
                                                                             —




- Required Off Street Parking Warehousing / Indoor Storage”) shall be amended to add
                                —




Data centers as a new use requiring 1 per employee on shift, to be inserted in Table 5-1
after “Liquid, bulk gas, explosives and other hazardous material storage” as follows:

    Data centers

Article 6: Article 6 (“Performance Standards for Speci?c Land Uses”) shall be
to add a new chapter, identi?ed as Chapter 6-16, to add Data Centers as an additional
                                                                                     amended
speci?c land use under Article 6 as follows:

    Chapter 6-16:       Data Centers

    6-16-1 Purpose

    Data centers are intensive land uses that can consume large quantities of water and
    electricity. Buildings often include industrial HVAC systems or water cooling/storage
    systems to prevent computer servers from overheating. Such systems commonly
    generate continuous sound that can spread across property lines. The low-frequency
    sounds emitted by data centers consist of long wavelengths that are not easily absorbed
    by the air or blocked by a sound barrier. Long-term exposure to noise impacts the health
    of Williams County residents. This Chapter is adopted to allow data centers in
    appropriate locations in Williams County and minimize the potential off-site impacts
    of development to protect public health, safety, and the general welfare of Williams
    County residents.

    6-16-2 Permitting

    The installation or construction of a data center, or any modi?cation to a lawfully
    existing data center beyond routine maintenance, requires a Conditional Use Permit.
    Installation or construction of a data center, or any modi?cations to a law?llly existing
    data center beyond routine maintenance, also requires a Williams County Building
    Permit obtained from the County Building Division. Data centers may only be
    permitted in the Heavy Industrial (HI) District with a Conditional Use Permit.

    6-12-3 Exemption

    Data centers which are solely located on an oil and gas well site or underground
    gathering pipeline line facility and which are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the
    North Dakota Industrial Commission pursuant to N.D.C.C. Chapter 38-08, or any
    successor statute, are exempt from the provisions of this Chapter 6-16.

    6-16-3 Application Requirements

    The application for the installation or construction a data center, or for modi?cations
    to a lawfully existing data center beyond routine maintenance, shall follow the
    application procedures for Conditional Use Permits (Ch. 3-2) and any other procedures

                                     Page 2 of 7
as may be requiredby this Ordinance for data centers, such as zoning map amendments,
platting, or variances. In addition, applications shall include the following:

1.     Applicant name(s) and contact infonnation. The applicant must also identify on
       the application, if different than the applicant, the record owner of the property,
       the occupant or lessee of the property, and the operator of the data center.

       A narrative describing the proposed project, including a description of how the
       project meets market demand, the facility’s processing capacity, and the
       facility’s anticipated water and electricityneeds.

       A study prepared by an acoustical engineer that describes the anticipated noise
       level of the facility and any proposed mitigation efforts such as sound walls,
       baf?es, ventilation silencers, etc.

       A site plan, drawn to scale, showing the location and dimensions of all existing
       and proposed structures, screening, fencing, lighting, electrical connections,
       property lines, and roadway access.

       A map of the project area showing all single-family and multi-family dwellings,
       schools, churches, synagogues, and other similar religious institution or
       structures, and public parks located within one (1) mile of the exterior
       boundaries of the property where the data center will be located.

       All application fees, including the required fees for a Conditional Use Permit
       and building permits, in the amounts determined by the Board of County
       Commissioners.

       Copies of signedpermits or other documentation that indicates compliance with
       all applicable State and Federal laws, statutes, rules, regulatory standards,
       including but not limited to the North Dakota State Electrical Board and the
       North Dakota State Electrical Code, and any amendments thereto.

       Copy of the signed electricalpower purchase agreement.

       Financial security for the following:

       a. Financial security for maintenance of the data center, as fully constructed
          and operational or, if the project only involves modi?cations to a lawfully
          existing data center beyond routine maintenance as permitted by this
          Ordinance, ?nancial security for maintenance of the lawfully existing data
          center as modified. The ?nancial security shall be in the amount of 125%
          of the estimated cost to maintain the data center, as ?illy constructed and
          operational, or as modi?ed, as determined by the applicant’s engineer, who
          must be a State of North Dakota registered engineer, with such estimated
          costs subject to review and approval by the Williams County Engineer; and


                                Page 3 of 7
       b. Financial security for reclamationand restoration of any data center and the
          property on which the data center is located or, if the project only involves
          modi?cations to a lawfully existing data center beyond routine maintenance
          as permitted by this Ordinance, ?nancial security for reclamation and
          restoration of the property on which the data center as modi?ed is located.
          Reclamation and restoration shall include, but is not limited to, the removal
          and disposal of all above-ground structures, underground structures, and
          utilities to depth of four feet, and the removal and disposal of all other
          facilities,structures, equipment, and materials on or under the property. The
          ?nancial security shall be in the amount of 125% of the estimated cost to
          reclaim and restore property on which the data center, or the data center as
          modi?ed, is located as determinedby the applicant’s engineer, who must be
          a State of North Dakota registered engineer, with such estimated costs
          subject to review and approval of the Williams   County Engineer.

      Any ?nancial security provided by the applicant which is required by this
      Chapter shall be subject to review and approval by the County and be in the
      form of one or more of the following: (i) an irrevocable letter of credit issued
      by an FDIC insured ?nancial institution authorized to do business in the State
      of North Dakota to be effective beginning on the date that installation and/or
      construction of, or the approved modi?cations to, the data center start and
      provides for armual automatic renewals continuing to the date when full
      reclamation and restoration is complete as approved by the County; (ii) a surety
      bond which is effective beginning on the date that installation and/or
      construction of, or the approved modi?cations to, the data center start and
      provides for annual automatic renewals continuing to the date when ?1ll
      reclamationand restoration is complete as approvedby the County; and/or (iii)
      cash in escrow to be held in trust by Williams County effective beginning on
      the date that installation and/or construction of, or the approved modi?cations
      to, the data center start and continuing to the date when full reclamation and
      restoration is complete as approved by the County.

      The ?nancial security required above shall be provided to Williams County
      prior to commencement of any work to install and/or construct the data center,
      or to modify a lawfully existing data center beyond routine maintenance,but no
      later than the date determined by the Board of County Commissioners in
      approving the data center or in approving the modi?cations to a lawfully
      existing data center beyond routine maintenance.

10.   Other relevant studies, reports, certi?cations, or approvals as may be required
      by Williams County to ensure compliance with this Chapter and this
      Ordinance.

6-16-4 Design Standards

1.    Separation from sensitive properties. Data centers shall be set back at least
      one (1) mile ?'om all single-farnily and multi-family dwellings, schools,
      churches, synagogues, and other similar religious institution or structures, and
                               Page 4 of 7
      public parks as measured from the nearest property line of any of these sensitive
      properties to the data center’s exterior property lines.

      Separation from other data centers. New data centers shall be set back at
      least three (3) miles ?om any lawfully existing data center.

      Height. All buildings, structures, and appurtenances on the property where the
      data center will be located shall meet the height requirements of the Heavy
      Industrial (HI) district in this Ordinance.

      Electrical wiring. All electrical wiring shall be buried underground, except
      where wiring is brought together for interconnection to system components or
      the local utility power grid, provided that all electrical wiring shall comply with
      the North Dakota State Electrical Board, and any of its rules and regulations.

      Security fencing. A secured chain link or solid wood or masomy fence at least
      six (6) feet in height shall be constructed and maintained around the entire
      perimeter of the facility to prevent unauthorized entry onto the property or into
      the facility. Any fencing shall comply with Section 5-2-8 of the Development
      Standards in this Ordinance.

      Buffering and screening. Landscaped buffers shall be required around the
      entire perimeter of the property where the data center is located in accordance
      with the requirements of Section 5-5-6 of the Landscaping Standards in this
      Ordinance.

      Exterior Lighting Standards. Exterior lighting for the data center shall
      comply with Section 5-2-7 of the Development Standards in this Ordinance.

      Accessory structures     and appurtenances.    All accessory structures or
      appurtenances, including   those constructed for noise mitigation, shall be
      designed in a manner that is complementary with the primary building(s) and
      shall be ?nished in a non-obtrusivecolor.

      Roads. All adjacent exterior access roads serving a data center shall conform
      to Sections 5-2-1 and 5-2-3 of the Development Standards in this Ordinance.
      Exterior road construction or improvementsshall be subject to approval by the
      Williams County Highway Superintendent or their designee. A road
      maintenance agreement with any government entity having jurisdiction over the
      adjacent exterior access roads shall be required during installation or
      construction of the data center, or during modi?cation of a lawfully existing
      data center beyond routine maintenance. All interior roads serving the data
      center shall be subject to review by the Williams County Fire Inspector to
      ensure safe and adequate access by emergency services personnel.

10.   Storm Drainage, Erosion Control, Grading, and Drainage. The data center
      shall comply with the storm drainage, erosion control, grading, and drainage

                               Page 5 of 7
        requirements in Sections 5-1-8, 5-1-9, and 5-1-10 of the Development
        Standards in this Ordinance.

11.     Development Agreement. The applicant and, if different than the applicant,
        the record owner of the property, the occupant or lessee of the property, and/or
        the operator of the data center and of the property on which the data center will
        be located, as determined appropriate by the County, must sign a development
        agreement which shall include provisions related to, but are not limited to, the
        posting and use of ?nancial security, exterior and interior road constructionor
        improvement, road maintenance, improvements related to storm drainage,
        erosion control, grading, and drainage, reclamation and restoration, and/or any
        other condition imposedby this Chapter, this Ordinance, or the Board of County
        Commissioners in approving installation of construction of the data center or
        modi?cations to a lawfully existing data center beyond routine maintenance.

6-16-5 Abandonment or Ceasing Operations

It is the responsibility of the original applicant, or if different, the record owner of the
property, the occupant or lessee of the property, and the operator of the data center to
notify Williams County in writing, at least six (6) months in advance, of the intent to
abandon or cease operations of the data center. Any data center that is not operated for
a continuous period of six (6) months shall automatically be considered abandoned,
and the County may require the original applicant, or if different, the record owner of
the property, the occupant or lessee of the property, and the operator of the data center
to reclaim and restore the property within ninety (90) days after written notice to
reclaim and restore the property from the County. Any such reclamation and
restoration shall include, but is not limited to, removal and disposal of all above-ground
structures, underground structures, and utilities to depth of four feet, and removal and
disposal of all other facilities, structures, equipment, and materials on or under the
property. If the property is not fully reclaimed and restored as required by this Chapter
and/or any Development Agreement within ninety (90) days after written notice from
the County, the County may reclaim and restore the property, or cause the property to
be reclaimed and restored, including, but not limited to, removal and disposal of all
above-ground structures, underground structures, and utilities to depth of four feet, and
removal and disposal of all other facilities, structures, equipment, and materials on or
under the property and recover costs directly from the original applicant,or if different,
the record owner of the property, the occupant or lessee of the property, and/or the
operator of the data center. The County may also, in its discretion, recover such costs,
by access to and use of the ?nancial security provided and on ?le for the data center,
or by lien or special assessment, or any other remedy, authorized by law or the
Development Agreement entered into under this Chapter. Nothing in this Chapter is
intended to impose, or imposes, a mandatory obligation on the County to reclaim and
restore the property.




                                 Page 6 of 7
4.       Article 7: Article 7 (“De?nitions”)      shall be amended to add “Data Center” as a
         word/phrase to be de?ned as follows:

            Data center   —

                             A building, structure, complex or group of buildings and/or structures,
            facility, or dedicated space within a building, structure, complex, or facility that houses
            IT infrastructure, including, but not limited to, computer systems, networks, servers,
            applications, appliances, services, and other associated components or facilities used
            for the remote storage, processing, or transmission of digital data associated with those
            computer systems, networks, servers, applications, appliances, services, and other
            associated components or facilities. Associated components and facilities may also
            include air handlers, water cooling and storage facilities, utility substations, and other
            associated utility infrastructure to support operations. This de?nition also includes
            cryptocurrency mining, which involves the use of blockchain technology to verify and
            secure cryptocurrency transactions, as the terms “cryptocurrency”, “cryptocuirency
            mining”, “blockchain”, and “blockchain technology” are de?ned by any applicable
            State law or, if no applicable State law, by generally accepted industry standards.

         Incorporation of Amendments into 2015 Zoning Ordinance. The amendments adopted
         as set forth in this Ordinance shall be immediatelyincorporated into the text of the Williams
         County Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regilations effective September 15, 2015, as
         amended.

         Effective Date. This Ordinance and the proposed amendments as set forth herein shall be
         effectiveas of the 2“ day of January, 2024.




                                By:     u Anderson, Vice Chairman
                                Williams County Board of County Commissioners


                                Dated:

ATTEST:


Brenda Johnson, Williarré/
                      County Deputy Auditor

Dated:            Q (M?
          :>Qb(lQ£?
First Publication:

Second Publication:




                                             Page 7 of7
