LOCATION:                                                                           DATE AND TIME:
El Monte City Hall – East                                                               Wednesday,
City Council Chambers                                                                 March 18, 2026
11333 Valley Boulevard                                                                     6:00 p.m.
El Monte, CA 91731




CONCURRENT SPECIAL MEETING AGENDA
                                                OF THE

  CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EL MONTE
MEETING JOINTLY AND REGULARLY WITH THE EL MONTE HOUSING AUTHORITY; EL MONTE
PUBLIC FINANCING AUTHORITY; EL MONTE WATER AUTHORITY; EL MONTE PARKING
AUTHORITY; SUCCESSOR AGENCY TO THE FORMER EL MONTE COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT
AGENCY; HOUSING SUCCESSOR AGENCY; AND, FROM TIME TO TIME, SUCH OTHER BODIES OF
THE CITY WHOSE MEMBERSHIP IS COMPOSED EXCLUSIVELY OF THE MEMBERSHIP OF THE CITY
COUNCIL


                            COUNCILMEMBERS/AUTHORITY MEMBERS:
                                      Jessica Ancona, Mayor
                ♦ Viviana Longoria, Mayor Pro Tem ♦ Marisol Cortez, Councilmember
             ♦ Sheila Crippen-Thomas, Councilmember ♦ Cindy Galvan, Councilmember
                ♦ Martin Herrera, Councilmember ♦ Dr. Julia Ruedas, Councilmember



This meeting is a Special Meeting within the meaning of Government Code Section 54956 and as
such public comment is limited to the item(s) of business appearing on the Special Meeting agenda
only.

Members of the public may address the City Council (i) on agendized closed session items of business prior
to the City Council going into closed session; (ii) on items of business listed under the heading Public
Hearings when the public hearing on the item the speaker wishes to speak on is opened; and/or (iii) on all
other items appearing on the Special Meeting agenda. The City Council shall be under no obligation to
entertain comments from persons who (i) submit a speaker card after the City Council closes the
applicable commenting period. With this in mind, speakers are strongly encouraged to submit cards as
early as possible to avoid missing the opportunity to speak. Speaker cards should be submitted to the City
Clerk or the Sergeant at Arms (a uniformed El Monte Police Officer) before the City Council’s approval of
the agenda, if possible.

The City Council shall be under no obligation to respond to or deliberate upon any specific questions or
comments posed by a speaker or take action on any issue raised by a speaker beyond such action as the
City Council may be lawfully authorized to take on an agendized matter pursuant to the Brown Act (Govt.
Code Section 54950 et seq.) (“Brown Act”) Members of the City Council may provide brief clarifying
responses to any comment made or questions posed. Persons who wish to address the City Council are


                      City Council Concurrent Special Meeting of March 18, 2026

asked to state their name and address for the record. Speakers may not lend any portion of their speaking
time to other persons or borrow additional time from other persons. All comments or queries presented by
a speaker shall be addressed to the City Council as a body and not to any specific member thereof. No
questions shall be posed to any member of the City Council except through the presiding official of the
meeting, the Mayor and/or Chair. The City Council may not engage in any sort of prolonged discussion or
deliberation with any speaker or group of speakers on matters that are not listed on this agenda, nor may
the City Council take action an any non-agendized items of business, except as specifically authorized under
the Brown Act.

Enforcement of Decorum: The Chief of Police, or such member, or members of the Police Department as
the Chief of Police may designate, shall serve as the Sergeant-at-Arms of any City Council meeting. In
accordance with Government Code Section 54957.95 as adopted under SB 1000, the Sergeant-at-Arms
shall carry out all orders and instructions given by the presiding official for the purpose of maintaining order
and decorum at the meeting. While members of the public are free to level criticism of City policies and the
action(s) or proposed action(s) of the City Council or its members, members of the public may not engage
in behavior that is disruptive to the orderly conduct of the proceedings, including, but not limited to, conduct
that prevents other members of the public from being heard when it is their opportunity to speak or which
prevents members of the audience from hearing or seeing the proceedings; speaking off topic or speaking
beyond the speakers allotted time limit. Members of the public may not threaten any person with physical
harm or act in a manner that may reasonably be interpreted as an imminent threat of physical harm. All
persons participating in the meeting must adhere to the City’s policy barring harassment based upon a
person’s race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital
status, gender, sexual orientation, or age.

Instruction regarding accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act can be found on
the last page of this Agenda.



1.     CALL TO ORDER:



2.     ROLL CALL FOR CITY COUNCIL AND AUTHORITY BODIES:

       Jessica Ancona, Mayor/Chair
       Viviana Longoria, Mayor Pro Tem/Authority Member
       Marisol Cortez, Councilmember/Authority Member
       Sheila Crippen-Thomas, Councilmember/Authority Member
       Cindy Galvan, Councilmember/Authority Member
       Martin Herrera, Councilmember/Authority Member
       Dr. Julia Ruedas, Councilmember/Authority Member



3.     APPROVAL OF AGENDA:




                   El Monte City Council ♦ El Monte Housing Authority ♦ El Monte Financing Authority
                              ♦ El Monte Parking Authority ♦ El Monte Water Authority
                                                      Page 2 of 5


                    City Council Concurrent Special Meeting of March 18, 2026

4.   CLOSED SESSION:

     This is the time set aside for interested members of the public to address the City Council on
     agendized Closed Session matters. Subject to the commenting procedures described above, the
     City Council will allow interested members of the public to address the City Council on agendized
     Closed Session matters prior to holding Closed Session. Each speaker will be given a single
     speaker time allotment of three (3) continuous minutes total to address the Council on any or all
     closed session items of business. The City Council shall be under no obligation to recognize a
     speaker who submits a speaker card after the City Council has gone into Closed Session.

     4.1    Closed Session Pursuant to Government Code Section 54956.9 Subparts (a), (d)(2),
            and (e)(3) – Conference with Legal Counsel – Anticipated Litigation – Two (2) Matters.



5.   INVOCATION:            City Council



6.   FLAG SALUTE:           City Council



7.   SPECIAL MEETING PUBLIC COMMENT REGARDING AGENDIZED MATTERS ONLY:

     As provided under Government Code Section 54954.3, this time has been set aside for persons in
     the audience to provide comment or make inquiries on matters appearing on this Special Meeting
     agenda only. Although no person is required to provide their name and address as a condition to
     attending a meeting, persons who wish to address the body are asked to state their name and
     address. Each speaker will be limited to three (3) continuous minutes. Speakers may not lend any
     portion of their speaking time to other persons or borrow additional time from other persons. All
     comments or queries presented by a speaker shall be addressed to the body as a whole and not to
     any specific member thereof. No questions shall be posed to any member of the body except through
     the presiding official of the meeting, members of the body are under no obligation to respond to
     questions posed by speakers but may provide brief clarifying responses to any comment made or
     questions posed. The body may not engage in any sort of prolonged discussion or deliberation with
     any speaker or group of speakers on matters that are not listed on this Special Meeting agenda.

     Enforcement of Decorum: The Chief of Police of the City of El Monte, or such member, or members
     of the Police Department as the Chief of Police may designate, shall serve as the Sergeant-at-Arms
     of the meeting. The Sergeant-at-Arms shall carry out all orders and instructions given by the
     presiding official for the purpose of maintaining order and decorum at the meeting. While members
     of the public are free to level criticism of policies and the action(s) or proposed action(s) of the body
     or its members, members of the public may not engage in behavior that is disruptive to the orderly
     conduct of the proceedings, including, but not limited to, conduct that prevents other members of the
     public from being heard when it is their opportunity to speak or which prevents members of the
     audience from hearing or seeing the proceedings.




                El Monte City Council ♦ El Monte Housing Authority ♦ El Monte Financing Authority
                           ♦ El Monte Parking Authority ♦ El Monte Water Authority
                                                   Page 3 of 5


                   City Council Concurrent Special Meeting of March 18, 2026

     Members of the public may not threaten any person with physical harm or act in a manner that may
     reasonably be interpreted as an imminent threat of physical harm. All persons attending the meeting
     must adhere to policies barring harassment based upon a person’s race, religious creed, color,
     national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, gender, sexual
     orientation or age.


8.   REGULAR:

     8.1    Consideration and Approval of an Interim Urgency Ordinance of the City Council of
            the City of El Monte, California, Instituting a Temporary 45-day Moratorium Prohibiting
            Processing, Approval, and Acceptance of New Data Center Land Use Applications
            Pursuant to Government Code Section 65858.

            RECOMMENDATION OF BUSINESS ITEM UNDER CONSIDERATION:

            It is recommended that the City Council:

            1. Determine the adoption of this Urgency Ordinance is exempt from California
               Environmental Quality Act pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3); and
            2. Introduce by title only, and waive further reading of Urgency Ordinance, imposing a 45-
               day moratorium prohibiting processing, approval, and acceptance of new data center land
               use applications.

            Total Cost: N/A                                  Account No:     N/A
            Is the cost of this item budgeted? N/A

            Interim Urgency Ordinance No. 3063




                El Monte City Council ♦ El Monte Housing Authority ♦ El Monte Financing Authority
                           ♦ El Monte Parking Authority ♦ El Monte Water Authority
                                                   Page 4 of 5


                    City Council Concurrent Special Meeting of March 18, 2026

9.   ADJOURNMENT:

     The next Regular Meeting of the City Council will be held on March 25, 2026 at 6:00 p.m. This
     Agenda will be posted on the City’s website, www.ci.el-monte.ca.us, and physically posted no less
     than 72 hours prior to the start of the subject regular meeting. Although it is the City’s practice and
     desire to electronically post a copy of this Agenda along with supporting material as part of its website
     posting, the size or formatting of certain supporting materials may render their website posting
     infeasible. Nevertheless, all supporting materials related to any item on this Agenda, that is made
     available to the members of the council may be inspected by members of the public at the City
     Clerk’s Office located at 11333 Valley Boulevard, El Monte, Monday through Thursday, 7:00 am –
     5:30 pm. For more information, please call the City Clerk’s Office at 626-580-2016.

     All public meetings and events sponsored or conducted by the City of El Monte are held in sites
     accessible to persons with disabilities. Requests for accommodations may be made by calling the
     office of the City Clerk at (626) 580-2016 at least three (3) working days prior to the event, if possible.
     This Agenda and copies of documents distributed at the meeting are available in alternative formats
     upon request.



                                   Posted: March 17, 2026 at 5:30 p.m.




                 El Monte City Council ♦ El Monte Housing Authority ♦ El Monte Financing Authority
                            ♦ El Monte Parking Authority ♦ El Monte Water Authority
                                                    Page 5 of 5


CITY OF EL MONTE

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA REPORT

CITY COUNCIL CONCURRENT SPECIAL MEETING OF
MARCH 18, 2026

March 17, 2026

The Honorable Mayor and City Council
City of El Monte

11333 Valley Boulevard

El Monte, CA 91731

Dear Mayor and City Council:

CONSIDERATION AND APPROVAL OF AN INTERIM URGENCY ORDINANCE
OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EL MONTE, CALIFORNIA,
INSTITUTING A TEMPORARY 45-DAY MORATORIUM PROHIBITING
PROCESSING, APPROVAL, AND ACCEPTANCE OF NEW DATA CENTER LAND
USE APPLICATIONS PURSUANT TO GOVERNEMENT CODE SECTION 65858

IT IS RECOMMENDED THAT THE CITY COUNCIL:

1. Determine the adoption of this Urgency Ordinance is exempt from California
Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section
15061(b)(3); and

2. Introduce by title only, and waive further reading of Urgency Ordinance, imposing
a 45-day moratorium prohibiting processing, approval, and acceptance of new data
center land use applications.

BACKGROUND

Communities throughout the state and country have experienced detrimental effects of
Data Center land uses, including but not limited to intensive energy and water use, noise,
crime and security issues, air quality, water and noise pollution, aesthetic impacts; and
other related effects on property values and quality of life to surrounding neighborhoods.
Data Center land uses often necessitate unique and/or abnormally large utility
infrastructure connections to electrical, water, and sewage systems; where existing
infrastructure is unable to support such land use nor load intensity of demand.
8.1


HONORABLE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
MARCH 17, 2026
PAGE 2

The City of El Monte Municipal Code (“EMMC’) does not, at present, adequately regulate
Data Center land uses, including location, size and scope, and other development
standards in its Zoning Ordinance. Data Centers are currently undefined in the EMMC.

An interim ordinance is only effective for an initial period of 45 days. Prior to its expiration,
the City Council may, after a duly noticed public hearing, extend the interim ordinance for
up to 10 months and 15 days. ;

DISCUSSION

It is Staffs assessment that the proposed Urgency Ordinance is necessary in order to
protect the City from the potential negative impacts. The proposed Urgency Ordinance
would grant Staff time to evaluate impacts, gather public input, and draft zoning
regulations for consideration.

ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW

Pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) (Pub. Res. Code § 21000
et seq.) under the commonsense exemption set forth in California Code of Regulations,
Title 14, § 15061(b)(3) (“CEQA Guidelines”). This section states that projects that do not
result in direct, or reasonably foreseeable indirect, physical changes in the environment
are not subject to CEQA review. The adoption of Interim Urgency Ordinance would
prohibit the processing, approval, and acceptance of new data center land use
applications; thus, it can be seen with certainty that prohibiting the processing, approval,
and acceptance of new data center land use applications would not cause a direct or
indirect impact on the environment.

FISCAL IMPACT/FINANCING

Adoption of this Interim Urgency Ordinance would not result in a direct fiscal impact on
the General Fund.

CONCLUSION
It is recommended that the City Council approve the attached Interim Urgency Ordinance.

The Interim Urgency Ordinance shall become effective immediately if adopted by a four-
fifths (4/5) vote of the City Council for a period of 45 days.


HONORABLE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
MARCH 17, 2026
PAGE 3

Respectfully submitted,

“ALMA K. MARTINEZ
City Manager

STEVE FOWLER
Community & Economic Development Director

Attachment 1 — Urgency Ordinance

DATE: MARCH 18, 2026

PRESENTED TO EL MONTE

CITY COUNCIL

Oooodadaq

APPROVED
DENIED

PULLED

RECEIVE AND FILE
CONTINUED

REFERRED TO

CHIEF DEPUTY CITY
CLERK



URGENCY ORDINANCE NO.

AN INTERIM URGENCY ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL
OF THE CITY OF EL MONTE, CALIFORNIA, INSTITUTING AN
TEMPORARY FORTY-FIVE DAY MORATORIUM PROHIBITING
PROCESSING, APPROVAL, AND ACCEPTANCE OF NEW
DATA CENTER LAND USE APPLICATIONS PURSUANT TO
GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 65858

WHEREAS, California Constitution Article XI, Section 7, enables the City of El Monte (the
“City”) to enact local planning and land use regulations; and

WHEREAS, the authority to adopt and enforce zoning regulations is an exercise of the
City’s police power to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and

WHEREAS, California Government Code Section 65858 authorizes the City Council to
adopt an interim urgency ordinance for the immediate preservation of the public health, safety, or
welfare, and to prohibit a land use that is in conflict with a contemplated general plan, specific
plan, or zoning proposal that the City Council, Planning Commission, or Economic Development
Department is considering or studying or intends to study within a reasonable time; and

WHEREAS, a “Data Center” is defined herein in Section 2 below. Data Centers provide
the hardware for large scale software systems, traditional computational demands with
accompanying cloud storage, and generative artificial intelligence; and

WHEREAS, communities throughout the state and country have experienced detrimental
effects of Data Center land uses, including but not limited to intensive energy and water use, noise,
crime and security issues, air quality, water and noise pollution, aesthetic impacts; and other related
effects on property values and quality of life to surrounding neighborhoods; and

WHEREAS, Data Center land uses often necessitate unique utility infrastructure
connections to electrical, water, and sewage systems; where existing infrastructure is unable to
support such land use nor load intensity of demand; and

WHEREAS, Data Centers are undefined in the City of El] Monte Municipal Code (“EMMC”)
and present a novel use in the City. The City does not, at present, adequately regulate Data Center
land uses, including location, size and scope, and other development standards in its Zoning
Ordinance; and;

WHEREAS, it is in the City's best interest to promote orderly growth and balance the
development of Data Centers with respect to economics, compatibility with other uses, and
aesthetics; and

WHEREAS, the City requires time to study the relevant issues and explore appropriate
regulations concerning the establishment, placement, and possible operational conditions of Data
Center land uses; and


WHEREAS, the City Council desires to direct Staff of the El Monte Economic
Development Department to conduct such analysis and to report their findings to both the
Planning Commission and City Council within a reasonable time; and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EL MONTE, CALIFORNIA
DOES HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Recitals. The above recitals are true and correct and incorporated herein
by reference.

SECTION 2. Definitions. For the purpose of this Interim Urgency Ordinance, the term
“Data Center’ shall mean a facility or structure whose sole or primary function is to house servers
and data storage systems with connections to the public internet or closed enterprise networks
for large scale software systems and the computational demands of traditional computational
demands and generative artificial intelligence. A Data Center may also include backup power
generators, water cooling and storage facilities, air handlers, utility substations, fire suppression
systems, and other infrastructure to support operations.

A. The term “Data Center” shall not include:
1. City action; and
2. Data processing facilities whose use is secondary or ancillary to another expressly
permitted use, located on less than one acre of land.

SECTION 3. Moratorium.

A. The City Council declares a moratorium on the acceptance, processing and
approval of any application for the establishment of a new Data Center, and the issuance of any
permit, business license, business occupancy permit, or certificate of occupancy for the purpose
of establishing a new Data Center or expanding an existing Data Center.

B. | The moratorium shall be effective for the period set forth in this Urgency Ordinance
and extensions thereof, or until such earlier time that the City Council amends the City of El Monte
Zoning Ordinance to address the concerns described in this Urgency Ordinance.

SECTION 4. Urgency Findings. This Urgency Ordinance is adopted as an urgency
measure pursuant to Government Code Section 65858 and is for the immediate preservation of
the public health, safety, and welfare. This Urgency Ordinance is deemed necessary based upon
the recitals herein and for the following reasons:

A. In light of the foregoing Recitals, the City Council finds that the establishment or
expansion of Data Centers within the City presents a current and immediate threat to public
health, safety and welfare, and the approval of permits, licenses, or any other applicable
entitlement required by the zoning ordinance would result in that threat to public health, safety, or
welfare.

B. Diesel generators plus heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems
within Data Centers can create a constant hum that can be audible to neighboring residents and
wildlife. Data centers generate noise levels that may exceed 90 decibels. Noise levels above 85
decibels are harmful to hearing.


C. It is the intent of the City Council to consider zoning regulations that, for example,
expressly define a Data Center, and regulate the placement and operational conditions of Data
Centers in the City.

D. Amending the Zoning Ordinance requires study, public hearings, and both Planning
Commission and City Council review.

E. — This Urgency Ordinance will afford Staff and the Planning Commission a reasonable
amount of time to study the matter.

F. In light of these findings and all evidence in the record, including, but not limited to
the staff report accompanying this Interim Urgency Ordinance, the City Council finds that this
moratorium is justified in accordance with Government Code section 65858.

SECTION 5. Hardship Exemption.

A. The City Council has the authority but no obligation to grant exemptions from the
provisions of this Urgency Ordinance where it finds that strict adherence to the moratorium would
result in extreme hardship to either: (i) the business owner proposing an Data Center or expansion
of an existing Data Center; or (ii) the relevant property owner. The City Council may consider any
factor relevant to this determination. A finding that the moratorium deprives the owner of all
economically viable use of the property shall constitute extreme hardship.

B. | Written requests for hardship exemptions shall be filed with the Planning Division
and shall state the grounds for the exemption and provide supporting documentation. The City
Council is not required to consider the request any sooner than two weeks after it was filed. The
City Council shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the request by resolution.

SECTION 6. CEQA. This Urgency Ordinance is exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) based on the following:

A. Pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) (Pub. Res.
Code § 21000 et seq.) and CEQA Guidelines (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 14, § 15000 ef seq.),
there is no possibility that the adoption of this Urgency Ordinance and continuance of a
moratorium, hereby, may have a significant effect on the environment, because the
moratorium will maintain the current environmental conditions arising from the current
land use regulatory structure and is therefore exempt from CEQA pursuant to CEQA
Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).

SECTION 7. Severability. If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase of this Urgency Ordinance, or any part thereof is for any reason held to be invalid
or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Urgency Ordinance or any part thereof. The
City Council hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase would be subsequently
declared invalid or unconstitutional.



SECTION 8. Effective Date. Pursuant to Government Code section 36937, this Urgency
Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon adoption if adopted by at least four-fifths vote
(6 of 7 members) of the City Council and shall be in effect for 45 days from the date of adoption
unless extended as provided by Government Code section 65858.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of El Monte at its
concurrent special meeting on this 18th day of March 2026.

Jessica Ancona, Mayor
City of El Monte

ATTEST:

Gabriel Ramirez, City Clerk
City of El Monte


STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES ) ss.
CITY OF EL MONTE )
|, Gabriel Ramirez, City Clerk of the El Monte, County of Los Angeles, State of California, do
hereby certify that the above and foregoing is a full, true, and correct copy of interim Urgency

Ordinance No. adopted by the City Council of the City of El Monte, at a special meeting by
said Council held on March 18, 2026, by the following votes to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

Gabriel Ramirez, City Clerk
City of El Monte
