                                                                               Agenda Item No. 8A
                                                                                    May 14, 2024

TO:            Honorable Mayor and City Council Members
               Attention: Aaron M. Busch, City Manager

FROM:          Erin Morris, Community Development Director
               (Staff contact: Noah Rumbaoa, Assistant Planner (707) 449-5430)

SUBJECT:       INTERIM ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VACAVILLE
               IMPOSING AS AN URGENCY MEASURE A PROHIBITION ON THE
               APPLICATION ACCEPTANCE, APPROVAL, COMMENCEMENT,
               ESTABLISHMENT, OPERATION, RELOCATION OR EXPANSION OF GRID-
               SCALE BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS (BESS) WITHIN THE CITY
               LIMITS DURING THE PENDENCY OF THE CITY’S REVIEW AND ADOPTION
               OF REGULATIONS OF SUCH USES


ACTION FOR CONSIDERATION:

The City Council will consider adopting as an urgency measure, an interim ordinance prohibiting
Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) facilities within Vacaville City limits for an initial term of
no more than 45 days following adoption.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

1. By title only, and by a four-fifths (6 out of 7), roll call, vote, adopt as an urgency measure, an
   interim ordinance prohibiting BESS facilities within Vacaville City limits; and
2. Waive reading of the title per Government Code §36934.

BACKGROUND:

On March 12, 2024, the City Council held a study session to discuss the City’s history with
BESS facilities, local and state policies regarding alternative energy, and the Council’s options
for the next steps, including the potential for adopting a moratorium related to BESS facilities. A
copy of the March 12th staff report is included under Attachment 1. Because BESS facilities are
an emerging technology, the City’s Zoning Code does not currently include a land use
classification, policies, or standards for regulating BESS facilities. At the March 12th meeting, the
Council expressed concerns about the potential development of BESS facilities in Vacaville
without adequate land use policies and standards in place. Additionally, the Council expressed
concern that the current Code does not include sufficient regulations to adequately address
BESS facilities, which creates further urgency for an interim ordinance. Following discussion,
the Council voted 6-1 to direct staff to prepare an interim ordinance as an urgency measure to
address growing concerns with BESS facilities while the City continues to study the safety and
feasibility of such a use within City limits.

DISCUSSION:

The purpose of the proposed interim ordinance is to allow City staff time to conduct further
research and analysis on the health and safety impacts of BESS facilities and evaluate various
options for land use development policies and standards that should be added to the Vacaville
General Plan and Zoning Ordinance. Much of this research and analysis would be obtained
from a feasibility study that is currently underway. The feasibility study, being prepared by
Larsen & Toubro (L&T), was authorized by the City Council on January 9, 2024, and is intended


to evaluate BESS facilities, alternative energy sources, and the development of a series of
energy hubs throughout Vacaville. The expected completion date of that study is October 2025.

The urgency of this ordinance is based on factual evidence related to the unpredictability of
BESS facilities nationwide, including in California. This includes several recent fires that have
resulted in shelter-in-place orders being issued for nearby residents and communities. While
there is information that suggests lithium-ion batteries are considered safe and stable, certain
conditions could elevate the risk of fire and thermal runaways, such as impacts, puncture or
mechanical damage, overcharging, overheating, and short circuits. Contamination of
groundwater has also resulted from fire suppression activities in incidents of fire or facility
operations related to BESS facilities. Other concerns identified by communities with BESS
facilities are aesthetics, traffic to operate and maintain the facility, and operational noise.

the Vaca-Dixon Substation is located in Vacaville at 5221 Quinn Road (Attachment 2). There is
a high desire for BESS facilities to locate near these types of energy substations as
demonstrated by the consistent number of inquiries and applications the City of Vacaville and
Solano County have received for siting BESS facilities in locations within proximity of the Vaca-
Dixon Substation. Originally constructed by Pacific Gas and Electric on September 30, 1992,
the substation supports a network of transmission power lines and acts as one of the gateways
for power to the San Francisco Bay Area. 1 BESS facilities operate by taking excess energy from
a substation or green energy source and transforming it for storage into an array of batteries
within separate modules or building structures until needed to return back into PG&E’s energy
grid. BESS operators have indicated the vacant land surrounding the Vaca-Dixon Substation
would be a viable location for a new BESS facility.

Finally, on January 23, 2024, the Solano County Board of Supervisors adopted as an urgency
measure an interim ordinance (Ordinance No. 2024-1852-U) enacting a temporary moratorium
on the issuance of new entitlements for commercial BESS facilities in the unincorporated area
of Solano County. On February 27, 2024, the interim ordinance was extended by the Solano
County Board of Supervisors through January 23, 2026, (Ordinance No. 2024-1852-U-E).
These actions by Solano County further support the urgency for the City of Vacaville, as BESS
facility developers may be further limited in available land options, and as a result, may seek
additional locations for new BESS facility placements within City limits. For all these reasons,
staff believes an urgency ordinance is necessary and warranted, in order to prohibit BESS
facilities on an interim basis, and allow staff to research, study, and analyze appropriate policies
and standards for BESS facilities within the City limits.

In order to adopt an interim ordinance based on urgency needs, the City Council must make
findings of fact to support the urgency, and these findings are included in the attached
ordinance. If adopted by the City Council, the interim ordinance would take effect immediately
and remain in effect for a period of no more than 45 days. During the 45 days, staff would
evaluate options for a permanent ordinance to address concerns relative to commercial BESS
facility projects. If staff is unable to bring forward a permanent ordinance revision before the
expiration of the initial 45-day period, an extension of the interim ordinance would be requested
by the regular City Council meeting of June 25, 2024. The interim ordinance may be extended
one time, for 22 months and 15 days, in accordance with the provisions of Government Code
§65858. This would provide up to a two-year time frame for the City to evaluate policies and
implementation measures required to reduce community impacts resulting from new commercial
BESS facilities.




1 https://www.pgecurrents.com/articles/3560-century-clean-power-events-marked-100th-anniversary-pit-1-

powerhouse-vaca-dixon-substation


Applicability

According to the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), a BESS facility is an
electrochemical device that charges or collects energy from the grid or a distributed generation
system (e.g., power plant) and then discharges that energy at a later time to provide electricity
or other grid services when needed. BESS facilities can be small-scale “Behind-the-Meter”
facilities that are customer-sited stationary storage systems that are connected to the
distribution system on the customer’s side of the utility’s service meter. 2 In contrast, larger grid-
scale “Front-of-the-Meter” facilities 3 are on the utility side of the meter. “Front-of-the-meter”
facilities typically include large-scale energy generation and storage facilities like power plants,
wind farms, solar parks, and large-scale energy storage systems 4. The proposed interim
ordinance would temporarily prohibit grid-scale “Front-of-the-Meter” BESS facilities for an initial
45 days, with an option to extend the prohibition for a total of 2 years, during which time the City
will complete its feasibility study and prepare a permanent ordinance for BESS facilities.

State “Opt-In Applications” AB 205 (2022)

In 2022, Assembly Bill 205 established a new Opt-in Certification program for eligible non-fossil-
fueled power plants, energy storage, and manufacturing and assembly facilities to optionally
seek certification through the CEC (California Energy Commission). If CEC approves a project,
the certification would be in lieu of any permit, certificate, or similar document required by any
state, local, or regional agency, or federal agency to the extent permitted by federal law, with
some exceptions. The following types of facilities are eligible to apply for Opt-in Certification
Program:

    •    Solar photovoltaic or terrestrial wind electrical generating power plants (50 MW or greater).
    •    Energy storage system (capable of storing 200 megawatt-hours (MWh) or more).
    •    A stationary power plant using any source of thermal energy, excluding fossil or nuclear
         fuels (50 MW or greater).
    •    Certain transmission lines associated with these generating and storage facilities.
    •    Specified facilities that manufacture or assemble clean energy or storage technologies
         or related components.

The program is processed and permitted entirely by the CEC. The City’s proposed interim
ordinance would not, and could not, preclude a potential developer from opting into this State
process. If the CEC approves a project, the “opt-in” certification would be in place of any permit
required by the City. The CEC’s process is intended to streamline the review of non-fossil-fueled
power plants, including BESS facilities. Environmental review for the CEC process under
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) would be completed within 270 days after an
application is deemed complete, subject to certain limited extensions. The legislation does
require that any “opt-in” application be forwarded to the City for review and comment.

SB 38

October 7, 2023, the Governor of California signed into law Senate Bill 38 (SB 38), which
amends California Public Utilities Code section 761.3 to address safety concerns with BESS
projects. SB 38 requires every BESS facility in California to create an emergency response and
emergency action plan, and coordinate with local emergency management agencies, unified
program agencies, and local first responders to develop the plan and submit the plan to the


2 National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL).URL: https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy21osti/79393.pdf
3 National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL). URL: https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy19osti/74426.pdf
4 Electric Vehicle Energy Storage Company (EVESCO). URL: https://www.power-sonic.com/blog/behind-the-

meter-vs-front-of-the-meter/


county and/or city where the facility is located. Specifically, the emergency response and action
plan must:

   •   Establish response procedures for an equipment malfunction or failure;
   •   Include procedures, established in consultation with local emergency management
       agencies, that provide for the safety of surrounding residents, neighboring properties,
       emergency responders; and
   •   Establish notification and communication procedures between the battery storage facility
       and local emergency management agencies.

Additionally, the plan may consider responses to potential offsite impacts such as poor air
quality, threats to municipal water supplies, water runoff, and threats to natural waterways. The
plan also may include procedures for the local emergency response agency to establish shelter-
in-place orders and road closure notifications when appropriate. The proposed interim
ordinance would provide additional time for the City to develop procedures and standards for
facilitating the coordination of the emergency response and action plan with the County.

Current BESS Applications

On June 16, 2023, Solano County received a pre-application review request (PR-23-06) from
Vaca Dixon BESS LLC to construct a 300-megawatt (MW) BESS facility on an approximately
+/- 3-acre site located south of the existing CalPeak Power LLC Vaca Dixon Peaker Plant
located at 5157 Quinn Road (APN 0133-060-070). On February 15, 2024, Solano County
received a formal application (U-24-03) from Cal Peak Vaca Dixon BESS LLC to construct a
100-megawatt (MW) BESS facility on a 5-acre site north of the Peaker Plant, which is identified
on the location map under Attachment 2. Both applications were submitted by the same
developer and have been deemed incomplete, and the County interim moratorium has paused
further processing of these applications.

Within the City of Vacaville, there are currently no BESS facilities proposed, or pending
application review. However, it was brought to the City’s attention that in April 2023, Corby
Energy Storage, LLC, entered into a contract (Attachment 3) with Clean Power, SF, agreeing to
sell power from a [to be constructed] BESS facility in Vacaville, and documented two potential
sites with requirements that construction of the facility is to commence by December 1, 2024,
and that the facility is to be operational by June 1, 2025.

PUBLIC OUTREACH:

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 65858 and 65090, on May 4, 2024, notice was
published in the Vacaville Reporter. Additional notice was published on the City’s website and
social media channels.

ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT:

The interim ordinance is not subject to the CEQA (Public Resources Code §21000, et seq.),
because this type of project is exempted from environmental review as noted below:

   •   Section 15060(c)(2) – The project is exempt because the interim ordinance will not result
       in a direct or reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment.
   •   Section 15061(b)(3) – The project is exempt because it can be seen with certainty that
       there is no possibility the activity in question may have a significant effect on the
       environment.
   •   Section 15307 – The project is exempt because the action consists of regulatory activity
       to assure the protection of natural resources.


   •   Section 15308 – The project is exempt because the action consists of regulatory activity
       to assure the protection of the environment.
   •   Public Resources Code Section 21080(b)(4) and CEQA Guidelines Section 15269(c) –
       The project is exempt because it prevents a clear and imminent danger that requires
       immediate action to prevent or mitigate the loss of, or damage to, life, health, property,
       and essential public services.

FISCAL IMPACT:

Amount Requested: There are no funds requested for this item.

Funding Source: Community Development Department (2023)

Budget Distribution: The budget for any expenses related to this item is included in the
Community Development annual operating budget.

ALTERNATIVES:

The City Council could choose to deny the proposed interim ordinance; however, denial of this
action would be inconsistent with the direction provided by the City Council on March 12, 2024.

STRATEGIC PLAN GOAL/INITIATIVE:

Goal #2 – Strengthen the Local Economy
Initiative 2B: Manage Impacts from Growth

ATTACHMENTS:

Interim Ordinance – Action Item
Attachment 1: City Council Study Session staff report dated March 12, 2024
Attachment 2: Location Map
Attachment 3: Clean Power SF/Corby Energy Storage Agreement


                                        ORDINANCE NO.

INTERIM ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VACAVILLE IMPOSING
 AS AN URGENCY MEASURE A PROHIBITION ON THE APPLICATION ACCEPTANCE,
  APPROVAL, COMMENCEMENT, ESTABLISHMENT, OPERATION, RELOCATION OR
EXPANSION OF GRID-SCALE BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS (BESS) WITHIN
THE CITY LIMITS DURING THE PENDENCY OF THE CITY’S REVIEW AND ADOPTION OF
                        REGULATIONS OF SUCH USES

                                             Recitals

        WHEREAS, there is a growing demand for Battery Energy Storage Systems (“BESS”) in
the state of California due to increased demand for renewable electricity to reach the State’s
clean energy goals and mechanisms to ensure reliability of the State’s electric system, among
other things; and

        WHEREAS, the City of Vacaville does not have land use policies or standards in place
to regulate the location and operation of BESS facilities within the City of Vacaville which would
address compatibility with surrounding uses and safety among other issues; and

       WHEREAS, the City of Vacaville has previously received two specific requests to locate
grid-scale BESS facilities within City limits, both of which resulted in the City and the applicants
spending significant time and financial resources analyzing and eventually rejecting each
request; and

       WHEREAS, the City is aware of similar requests made recently to the County of Solano,
and the County of Solano has recently adopted an interim ordinance prohibiting “front of the
meter” BESS facilities while the County studies and considers land use development policies
and standards related to BESS facilities; and

        WHEREAS, during the Exclusive Negotiating Rights Agreement (ENRA) process for a
proposed BESS facility within the Vacaville City limits, residents from the community expressed
significant concerns surrounding the safety of BESS facilities in general, and specifically in
proximity to residential and recreational uses; and

        WHEREAS, there have been several recent fires at BESS facilities both in California and
nationwide. BESS facilities that use lithium-ion batteries create particularly unique fire and
explosion hazards. Information suggests that lithium-ion batteries are inherently safe and stable
when installed properly, however certain conditions elevate the risk of fire and thermal
runaways, such as impact, puncture, or mechanical damage, overcharging, overheating, and/or
short circuits; and

         WHEREAS, on October 7, 2023, the Governor of California signed into law Senate Bill
38 (SB 38), which amends California Public Utilities Code section 761.3 to address safety
concerns with BESS projects. SB 38 requires every BESS facility in California to establish an
emergency response and emergency action plan for the facility to protect surrounding residents,
neighboring properties, emergency responders, and the environment. Furthermore, the BESS
facility owner or operator must coordinate with local emergency management agencies, unified
program agencies, and local first responders to develop the plan, and submit the plan to the
county where the facility is located. Currently, the City of Vacaville does not have procedures or
standards to facilitate interagency coordination with the County and other response agencies;
and


        WHEREAS, SB 38 recognizes the many hazards that BESS facilities can create,
providing that the mandated emergency response and action plan may consider responses to
potential offsite impacts such as poor air quality, threats to municipal water supplies, water
runoff, and threats to natural waterways. The plan may also include procedures related to
shelter-in-place orders and road closure notifications. The City of Vacaville does not currently
have any procedures or standards for addressing potential offsite impacts associated with
BESS facilities; and

         WHEREAS, the City of Vacaville has been informed that the San Francisco Public
Utilities Commission (“SFPUC”) community choice energy program, CleanPowerSF, has signed
a 15-year battery storage contract with the Corby Project, a subsidiary of NextEra Energy
Resources, LLC., to construct a 300 megawatt (MW) BESS Facility in Solano County, which is
expected to be operational by the year 2025, when no such facility has been approved in the
City limits; and

        WHEREAS, the potential for the development of new grid-scale BESS facilities within
Solano County without adequate land use policies and standards in place to implement SB 38
and to prevent potentially catastrophic interference with nearby communities presents a current
and immediate threat to the public’s safety and welfare, and the approval of land use
entitlements for such uses would result in that threat to public safety and welfare; and

        WHEREAS, the City of Vacaville has contracted with an independent consultant to
prepare a feasibility study for the development of a series of energy hubs throughout Vacaville
as well as an evaluation of the feasibility, potential locations, operational and safety
performance standards for BESS facilities; and

         WHEREAS, the City, pursuant to Government Code Sections 36934, 36937, and 65858
may adopt as an urgency measure, an interim ordinance prohibiting any uses that may be in
conflict with a contemplated general plan, specific plan, or zoning proposal that the City Council
is considering or intends to study within a reasonable time for the immediate preservation of the
public health, safety, and welfare; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council has conducted a public hearing during a regularly
scheduled City Council meeting on May 14, 2024, and considered all written and verbal
comments, as well as the report and presentation from staff.

     NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VACAVILLE DOES
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1: Incorporation of Recitals. The City Council of the City of Vacaville finds that
all Recitals are true and correct and incorporated herein by reference.

        Section 2: Urgency Findings. The City Council of the City of Vacaville hereby finds that
there is a current and immediate threat to the public health, safety and/or welfare and a need for
immediate preservation of the public peace, health, or safety that warrants this urgency
measure, which finding is based upon the facts stated in the Recitals above, and in the staff
report dated May 14, 2024, as well as any oral and written testimony at the May 14, 2024, City
Council meeting.

       Section 3: Interim Moratorium on Grid-Scale Battery Energy Storage Systems.

       A. Definition of Battery Energy Storage System:


           For purposes of this interim ordinance, a Battery Energy Storage System (BESS)
           facility is an electrochemical device that charges or collects energy from the grid or a
           distributed generation system (e.g., power plant) and then discharges that energy at
           a later time to provide electricity or other grid services when needed. BESS facilities
           can be small-scale “Behind-the-Meter” facilities that are customer-sited stationary
           storage systems that are connected to the distribution system on the customer’s side
           of the utility’s service meter. In contrast, larger grid-scale “Front-of-the-Meter”
           facilities are on the utility side of the meter. “Front-of-the-meter” facilities typically
           include large-scale energy generation and storage facilities like power plants, wind
           farms, solar parks, and large-scale energy storage systems. The proposed interim
           ordinance prohibits grid-scale “Front-of-the-Meter” BESS facilities.

       B. From and after the date of enactment of the interim ordinance, the establishment,
          construction, and operation of new grid-scale “Front-of-the-Meter” Battery Energy
          Storage Systems is prohibited within the city limits of the City of Vacaville, and no
          use permit, variance, building permit, business license, or any other entitlement for
          this type of use shall be approved or issued for the establishment, construction, or
          operation of a BESS facility for any location or property, public or private, within the
          city limits of the City of Vacaville.

        Section 4: Exclusions. The provisions of this interim ordinance shall not apply to
individually owned single-family residential battery storage, multifamily residential battery
storage, or otherwise ancillary battery storage uses that are “behind-the-meter” primarily used to
meet single customer onsite energy storage needs.

         Section 5: Compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). This
interim ordinance is not subject to CEQA (Public Resources Code §21000, et seq.) pursuant to
CEQA Guidelines (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 14, §15000 et seq.) Section 15060(c)(2) [activity will not
result in a direct or reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment].
Additionally or alternatively, this interim ordinance is exempt from CEQA under CEQA
Guidelines Sections 15061(b)(3) [it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility the
activity in question may have a significant effect on the environment], 15307 [Class 7,
categorical exemption for regulatory activity to assure the protection of natural resources], and
15308 [Class 8, categorical exemption for regulatory activity to assure the protection of the
environment]. Further, this interim ordinance is exempt from CEQA pursuant to Public
Resources Code Section 21080(b)(4) and CEQA Guidelines Section 15269(c) because it
prevents a clear and imminent danger that requires immediate action to prevent or mitigate the
loss of, or damage to, life, health, property, and essential public services.

        Section 6: Severability. If any sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases or
portions of this Ordinance are for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have passed this and each section, subsection, phrase or clause of this
Ordinance whether or not any one or more sections, subsections, phrases or clauses may be
declared invalid or unconstitutional on their face or as applied.

        Section 7: This Interim Ordinance is urgently needed for the immediate preservation of
the public health, safety or welfare, and shall become effective immediately upon its adoption
pursuant to California Government Code Section 36937, and shall be of no further force and
effect forty-five (45) days following the date of its adoption unless earlier repealed by the City
Council or extended in accordance with the provisions set forth in California Government Code
Section 65858.


I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT the foregoing ordinance was INTRODUCED, ADOPTED, and
PASSED as an urgency measure by a four-fifths vote and ORDERED published at a regular
meeting of the City Council held on May 14, 2024, and passed by the following vote:

      AYES:

      NOES:

      ABSENT:

                                               ATTEST:


                                               Michele A. Thornbrugh, City Clerk


                                               Date:_________________________


                                                                                  ATTACHMENT 1

                                                                              Agenda Item No. 9C
                                                                                  March 12, 2024

TO:            Honorable Mayor and City Council Members
               Attention: Aaron M. Busch, City Manager

FROM:          Erin Morris, Community Development Director
               (Staff contact: Noah Rumbaoa, Assistant Planner (707) 449-5430)

SUBJECT:       DISCUSSION AND DIRECTION REGARDING BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE
               SYSTEMS


ACTION FOR CONSIDERATION:

The Council is asked to receive a presentation about a potential moratorium on battery energy
storage systems (BESS) and provide direction to staff.

RECOMMENDATION:

Staff recommends that the City Council receive the presentation, review the options described
below (“Options” section), and provide direction to staff.

BACKGROUND:

On January 9, 2024, Councilmember Stockton requested and Council unanimously approved
the preparation of a Council discussion of a potential moratorium on battery energy storage
facilities.

Prior to 2024, the City received previous BESS proposals, generally finding that the City’s Land
Use and Development Code (LUDC or Code) does not address BESS and would need to be
amended to allow BESS facilities as a principally or conditionally permitted land use.

Northeast Growth Area (Corby Energy Proposal)

On December 9, 2021, the Community Development Department received a Zoning Text
Amendment request from Corby Energy Storage, LLC, to amend standards in the Technology
Park Zoning District to allow Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) in the Northeast Growth
Area. In reviewing this application, staff found that BESS facilities are not a permitted land use
in Vacaville and would require General Plan and Zoning Text amendments. On August 23,
2022, the Vacaville City Council voted 4-3 to deny the request to amend the City’s Code. At the
same public meeting, the City Council directed staff to prepare text amendments for regulating
interim development in the Technology Park zoning district and Northeast Growth Area. On
November 15, 2022, the City Council voted 7-0 to create the Northeast Growth Area Overlay
District with standards and regulations for interim development under Chapter 14.09.191 of the
Code, which excluded BESS facilities.

Gibson Canyon Wastewater Treatment Plant (Menard Energy Proposal)

Separate from the proposal affecting the Northeast Growth Area, the City Council considered
whether to allow a BESS facility on City-owned property at the former Gibson Canyon
Wastewater Treatment Plant. On January 10, 2023, the City executed an Exclusive Negotiating
Rights Agreement (ENRA) with Menard Energy Storage, LLC for this City-owned property.
Menard’s proposal was to construct a 300 to 400-megawatt BESS facility consisting of 150 to


533 containers containing lithium-ion phosphate batteries which would connect to the Vaca-
Dixon Substation.

On March 8, 2023, Menard submitted a preliminary review application to the Community
Development Department as part of their due diligence activities. On April 14, 2023, City staff
provided written comments that BESS facilities were not allowed and required a Zoning Text
Amendment, which would require City Council approval. On September 7, 2023, the City hosted
an in-person community meeting at Solano Community College’s Vacaville campus to provide
additional information about Menard’s proposal and to provide the community an opportunity to
ask questions and voice concerns. Approximately 300 people attended the meeting to ask
questions and provide comments. Many attendees expressed concerns related to the safety of
BESS facilities in proximity to homes. On January 10, 2024, the City Council held a special
meeting to consider approving a one-year extension to the ENRA with Menard. After receiving
public comment, the Council voted unanimously (7-0) to deny the ENRA extension request.

Solano County Battery Storage Moratorium

Unrelated but occurring during the same time period as the actions in Vacaville, Solano County
was evaluating the prospects of allowing BESS facilities within unincorporated Solano County
lands that were close to Vacaville city limits. On January 23, 2024, the County Board of
Supervisors held a public meeting to discuss a temporary moratorium on BESS facilities in
unincorporated Solano County. At the end of the meeting, the Board voted 5-0 to adopt an
urgency ordinance (Ordinance No. 2024-1852-U) establishing an interim prohibition on BESS
facilities on unincorporated properties. The purpose of the prohibition was to give the County
time to develop standards and regulations for proposals for BESS facilities. The County’s
interim moratorium is effective until March 2024, after which it may be extended for up to two
years. Notably, this moratorium does not apply to land within incorporated cities, including
Vacaville.

DISCUSSION:

State Framework

To address human-caused climate change, the State of California has enacted legislation to
monitor and limit the emission of Greenhouse Gases (GHGs), including those released during
energy production. Subsequently, on August 11, 2015, the City Council adopted Resolution
2015-0714, certifying the City’s first-ever Energy and Conservation Action Strategy (ECAS). The
ECAS outlined strategies and actions that the City can take to reduce GHG emissions and
promote sustainable growth. The ECAS identified energy production and independence as part
of this coalition of strategies. Measures RE-3 and RE-4 required the City to work with PG&E and
other local agencies to facilitate the development of alternative energy facilities, including solar
and wind. Notably, the ECAS did not contain any mention of battery storage or similar energy
storage technologies.

In 2021, the City adopted a comprehensive update to the ECAS, setting a GHG reduction target
for 2035. Like its predecessor, the 2021 ECAS identifies energy emissions as the second
largest sector of local GHG emissions and does not contain any references to battery storage.

While the City has not included battery storage as part of its energy conservation and GHG
reduction efforts, the State has identified BESS facilities as an essential tool to combat climate
change. For example, in 2023, the California Independent System Operator (CAISO), which
operates approximately 80% of California’s energy grid, projected that approximately 50


gigawatts of new battery storage would be needed to meet California’s 2045 greenhouse gas
reduction goals. 1

BESS Facility Information

On January 9, 2024, the City Council authorized the City Manager to enter into an agreement
with Larsen & Toubro (L&T) for the preparation of a feasibility study for the development of a
series of energy hubs throughout Vacaville. Additionally, because L&T has national and
international experience with BESS facilities, as part of their scope of work, L&T will research
and provide information on BESS facilities and the selection process, which is expected to take
approximately 18 months.

L&T defines BESS facilities as “a technology that stores electrical energy in batteries for later
use” (Attachment 1). Because of the variability of renewable energy sources like solar and wind,
BESS facilities are useful for storing excess energy and releasing it when needed. While BESS
facilities store and release energy, they do not independently generate energy. BESS facilities
are comprised of multiple battery units that interact with the electrical grid to both store and
supply power. These facilities can range in size from small residential units to utility-scale
installations.

As noted above, BESS facilities are an emerging technology that were not contemplated at the
time of the 2015 Vacaville General Plan and ECAS. Rather, Vacaville’s energy efforts have
been focused on more traditional renewable energy production through wind, solar, and other
alternative energy sources. According to the United States Energy Information Administration
(EIA), the nation’s battery storage capacity has only begun to experience intense growth in
recent years, 2 with capacity expected to grow rapidly in 2024 and 2025 (Figure 1).

      Figure 1 – Annual U.S. Cumulative Installed Battery Capacity (November 2023)




Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration (2024)




1 “Special Report on Battery Storage”, California ISO, 7 July 2023, caiso.com/Documents/2022-Special-

Report-on-Battery-Storage-Jul-7-2023.pdf.
2 “U.S. Battery Storage Capacity Expected to Nearly Double in 2024”, U.S. Energy Information

Administration, 9 January 2024, https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=61202.


Vacaville’s Land Use and Development Code (LUDC or Code)

Because BESS facilities are an emerging technology, the City’s LUDC (which functions as the
City’s zoning code) does not currently include a land use classification for BESS facilities.
Instead, the closest land use that is included in the LUDC is “Alternative Energy Facilities.” The
previous LUDC, prior to the comprehensive update in 2022, included Section 14.02.016.020
(Uses – Definitions) which defined “Alternative Energy Facilities” as “those uses generating
power through non-fossil fuels such as solar and wind power.” While this definition no longer
exists under the current LUDC, “Alternative Energy Facilities” are still identified as conditionally
permitted in the Agricultural Buffer (AB) overlay district, subject to review and approval by the
Planning Commission. “Alternative Energy Facilities” were first identified in the 2015 Vacaville
General Plan as an example of potential uses within the required agricultural buffer between
urban uses east of Leisure Town Road and rural properties in unincorporated Solano County.

At present, staff have determined that private BESS facilities are: (1) not allowed on land
designated for Public/Institutional uses because they are not a public or semi-public use; and (2)
any proposal for a BESS facility would require a Zoning Text Amendment to establish
regulations that allow BESS facilities as a conditionally or principally permitted use.

As noted above, BESS facilities were not contemplated at the time of the 2015 General Plan
and ECAS. The ECAS specifically identifies wind and solar as two examples of Alternative
Energy Facilities. Furthermore, based on the definition of BESS facilities, staff believes that
BESS facilities cannot be classified as Alternative Energy Facilities because they do not
generate energy; rather, BESS facilities store power generated by Alternative Energy Facilities
(i.e. solar and wind). Because BESS facilities are not Alternative Energy Facilities and are not
identified as a land use in the LUDC, BESS facilities are not currently allowed in Vacaville.

Potential Moratorium

The City Council has requested information regarding placing a moratorium on BESS facilities.
A moratorium may be put in place on a temporary basis by adopting an interim ordinance as an
urgency measure prohibiting a use that may conflict with a contemplated general plan, specific
plan or zoning proposal that the City plans to study within a reasonable time. An urgency
measure requires a four-fifths vote of the City Council and must contain findings that there is a
current and immediate threat to public health, safety, or welfare.

An urgency measure may be adopted for an initial 45-day period and may be extended for a
total maximum length of two years. If notice of the urgency ordinance is published in the
newspaper at least 10 days prior to its initial consideration, the moratorium may be extended for
an additional 22 months and 15 days for a total of two years. If newspaper notice is not given
prior to the initial consideration of the urgency ordinance, then after the initial 45-day period the
interim ordinance may be extended for 10 months and 15 days – to be effective for a total of
one year, and then may be reconsidered for an additional one-year extension.

Assembly Bill 205 (2022)

In 2022, the California State Legislature passed Assembly Bill 205 (AB 205), which creates an
opt-in certification process for BESS facilities that are capable of storing at least 200 megawatt
hours of electricity. Under this process, eligible projects would be subject to review and approval
by the California Energy Commission (CEC), rather than the City. A project is only eligible if the
Applicant pays prevailing wages, uses a skilled and trained workforce, enters into a community
benefit agreement (e.g. workforce training, community improvements or amenities, monetary
contributions) with a local organization or governmental agency, and provides an overall net
positive economic benefit to the local jurisdiction (e.g. employment growth, housing


development, assistance to public schools or safety). Prior to certifying any BESS facility under
this process, public outreach is to be conducted and the CEC must consult with the City with
respect to non-compliance with any City laws, ordinances, regulations, and standards.
Additionally, the opt-in process does not exempt the project from the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA), meaning that any proposal would still be subject to rigorous environmental
review. The full text of AB 205 is attached as Attachment 2.

If the City were to establish a moratorium on BESS facilities, a BESS facility utilizing the opt-in
process under AB 205 could still be approved by the CEC based on the criteria of AB 205, and
subject to certain findings of public convenience and necessity.

OPTIONS:

Because BESS facilities are not currently defined or permitted under the LUDC, staff does not
believe that a moratorium on BESS facilities is necessary at this time. However, the Council has
several options for consideration in providing direction to staff, including:

   1. Agree with the interpretation that BESS facilities are not allowed because they are not
      identified in the Code and direct staff that no further action is necessary.

   2. Secure additional assurances by directing staff to prepare an amendment to the LUDC
      that would define BESS facilities and expressly prohibit BESS facilities or clarify that
      BESS facilities are not allowed within any zoning district in Vacaville.

   3. Direct staff to prepare Code amendments to address BESS facilities and identify where
      such facilities would be conditionally permitted. This action is not recommended at this
      time because the City does not have any regulations or standards for BESS facilities and
      is currently under contract with L&T to prepare a feasibility study which will provide
      technical and other information on BESS facilities that would further inform any Code
      amendments.

   4. Direct staff to prepare an interim ordinance (moratorium) to prohibit BESS facilities on a
      temporary basis while the City is studying the safety and feasibility of such a use within
      City limits.

Note that under options 1, 2, and 3, independent parties or property owners could still request a
Code Amendment to allow BESS facilities, which would require review and action by the City
Council.

ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT:

This action is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) because it is not a
project which has the potential for resulting in either a direct physical change in the environment
or a reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment, pursuant to CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378. If Council directs staff to proceed with processing an amendment to
the LUDC, a project-specific environmental analysis will be prepared as part of staff’s review.

FISCAL IMPACT:

Amount Requested: There are no funds requested for this item.

Funding Source: Community Development Department (2023)


Budget Distribution: The budget for any expenses related to this item is included in the
Community Development annual operating budget.

ALTERNATIVES:

The City Council could direct staff to follow one of the options set forth above.

In the alternative, the Council could make modifications to the options set forth above or direct
staff on other options not contemplated in the staff report.

STRATEGIC PLAN GOAL/INITIATIVE:

Goal #2 – Strengthen the Local Economy
Initiative 2B: Manage Impacts from Growth

ATTACHMENTS:

Attachment 1: Larsen & Toubro Scope of Work – BESS Facilities Definition
Attachment 2: Assembly Bill 205 (2022)


                                                                                               ATTACHMENT 1

Oct 16th, 2023.


A Battery Energy Storage System (BESS): often simply referred to as a Battery Storage System, is a
technology that stores electrical energy in batteries for later use. These systems are designed to capture
and store electricity when it is plentiful and then release it when it is needed, effectively smoothing out
fluctuations in the supply and demand of electricity. Battery storage systems play a crucial role in modern
energy infrastructure, especially as renewable energy sources like solar and wind become more prevalent.
They help mitigate the variability of these renewable sources by storing excess energy when it's abundant
and releasing it when needed, thus enhancing grid reliability, and enabling a more sustainable and
efficient energy supply. Here are the key components and functions of a Battery Storage System:

Top of Form

    1.   Battery Units: The core of the system consists of one or more battery units. These units contain
         arrays of individual battery cells or modules. The type of battery chemistry used can vary and
         includes lithium-ion, lead-acid, flow batteries, and others.

    2. Inverter: Battery storage systems are typically coupled with inverters. Inverters are responsible
         for converting the direct current (DC) electricity stored in the batteries into alternating current
         (AC), which can be used to power electrical devices and be fed back into the grid.

    3. Control System: A sophisticated control system manages the operation of the battery storage
         system. It monitors the state of charge, state of health, and performance of the batteries, as well
         as external factors like electricity prices, grid conditions, and renewable energy generation.

    4. Energy Management System (EMS): The EMS is responsible for optimizing the operation of the
         battery storage system. It makes decisions on when to charge and discharge the batteries based
         on various factors, such as electricity prices, grid demand, and the system's capacity.

    5. Grid Connection: Battery storage systems are typically connected to the electrical grid. They can
         operate in different modes, including grid-tied (supplying power to the grid), off-grid (isolated
         from the grid), or in a hybrid mode where they interact with both the grid and local loads.

    6. Applications: Battery storage systems serve various purposes, including grid stabilization
         (providing frequency and voltage support), load shifting (storing excess electricity during low-
         demand periods and discharging during peak demand), renewable energy integration (storing
         excess energy from solar or wind sources), and backup power supply in case of grid failures.

    7. Capacity: The capacity of a battery storage system is measured in kilowatt-hours (kWh) or
         megawatt-hours (MWh) and represents how much energy the system can store and deliver.
         Systems can range from small residential units to utility-scale installations with multiple
         megawatt-hours of capacity.




                           Larsen & Toubro Limited, Inc. Proprietary and Confidential – 2023


gm
WIEN) STATE OF CALIFORNIA
tescune AUTHENTICATED
BCUEL!  LECTRONIC LEGAL MATERIAL

Assembly Bill No. 205

CHAPTER 61

An act to add Article 13 (commencing with Section 16429.8) to Chapter
2 of Part 2 of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code, to amend
Sections 25403.2 and 25806 of, to add Chapter 6.2 (commencing with
Section 25545), Chapter 7.4 (commencing with Section 25640), and Chapter
8.9 (commencing with Section 25790) to Division 15 of, and to add and
repeal Section 25216.8 of, the Public Resources Code, to amend Sections
381, 739.1, 739.9, and 2827.1 of the Public Utilities Code, to add and repeal
Section 17131.20 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and to add Division
29 (commencing with Section 80700) to the Water Code, relating to energy,
and making an appropriation therefor, to take effect immediately, bill related
to the budget.

[Approved by Governor June 30, 2022. Filed with Secretary of
State June 30, 2022.]

LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL’S DIGEST

AB 205, Committee on Budget. Energy.

(1) Existing law, until January 1, 2026, establishes the California
Arrearage Payment Program (CAPP) within the Department of Community
Services and Development. Existing law requires the department to survey
utility applicants to obtain data pertaining to the total number of residential
and commercial customer accounts in arrears to determine the total statewide
energy utility arrearage and to develop an allocation formula for determining
an individual utility applicant’s share of CAPP funds. Existing law authorizes
specified utilities to apply for CAPP funds on behalf of their customers, and
requires the utility to use any funds received to offset customer arrearages
that were incurred during the COVID-19 pandemic bill relief period, as
specified. Existing law prohibits service from being discontinued due to
nonpayment for those customers included in a utility’s CAPP application
while the department reviews and approves all pending CAPP applications,
and requires the utility applicant to waive any associated late fees and
accrued interest for customers who are awarded CAPP benefits. Existing
law requires the department to report specified data to the Legislature and
on its public-facing internet website relating to distribution of CAPP benefits.

This bill would, upon appropriation, establish the 2022 California
Arrearage Payment Program (2022 CAPP) within the Department of
Community Services and Development. The bill would require the
department to release program notices and post program notices related to
2022 CAPP administration on its public-facing internet website. The bill
would require the department to make available an online application for
utility applicants to request 2022 CAPP funding for residential customers.

95


Ch. 61 a) Samed

The bill would require the department to develop an allocation formula for
determining an individual utility applicant’s share of 2022 CAPP funds
based on the proportional share of the total statewide energy utility
arrearages. The bill would require the department to approve utility
applicant’s 2022 CAPP applications, set statewide allocations, and disburse
funds within 7 months of the appropriation for the CAPP.

This bill would require a utility applicant to issue 2022 CAPP benefits
to residential customers within 60 days of receiving 2022 CAPP funds. The
bill would require a utility applicant to submit all reporting required by the
department detailed in a program notice within 6 months of the utility
applicant’s receipt of its 2022 CAPP allocation. The bill would require the
department to report specified data to the Legislature and on its public-facing
internet website relating to distribution of 2022 CAPP benefits within 60
days of receiving reporting from utility applicants.

This bill would require that any payment authorized by the 2022 CAPP
be treated in the same manner as the federal earned income refund for
purposes of determining the individual’s eligibility to receive benefits under
specified public social services laws. The bill would also prohibit the
payment from being taken into account as resources for a period of 12
months from receipt, for purposes of determining the eligibility of the
individual, or any other individual, for benefits or assistance for any other
state or local program, as provided.

(2) Existing law requires the State Energy Resources Conservation and
Development Commission (Energy Commission) to undertake various
actions in furtherance of meeting the state’s clean energy and pollution
reduction objectives.

This bill would require the Energy Commission to establish and implement
the Long-Duration Energy Storage Program to provide financial incentives
for projects that have power ratings of at least one megawatt and are capable
of reaching a target of at least 8 hours of continuous discharge of electricity
in order to deploy innovative energy storage systems to the electrical grid
for purposes of providing critical capacity and grid services. The bill would
authorize the Energy Commission to adopt guidelines or other standards
for, use financial incentives to provide moneys to participants in, and provide
technical assistance for, that program. The bill would authorize the Energy
Commission to noncompetitively award moneys for that program under
specified circumstances.

Existing law vests the Energy Commission with the exclusive jurisdiction
to certify the construction of a stationary or floating electrical generating
facility using a source of thermal energy with a generating capacity of 50
megawatts or more. Existing law prohibits a person from constructing such
a facility unless that person obtains a certificate from the commission, as
provided.

The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires a lead agency,
as defined, to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and certify the completion
of an environmental impact report on a project that it proposes to carry out
or approve that may have a significant effect on the environment or to adopt

95


—3— Ch. 61

a negative declaration if the lead agency finds that the project will not have
that effect. CEQA also requires a lead agency to prepare a mitigated negative
declaration for a project that may have a significant effect on the environment
if revisions in the project would avoid or mitigate that effect and there is
no substantial evidence that the project, as revised, would have a significant
effect on the environment.

The Jobs and Economic Improvement Through Environmental Leadership
Act of 2021 authorizes the Governor, until January 1, 2024, to certify a
leadership project, as defined, that meets specified requirements for
streamlining benefits related to CEQA, as provided. The act authorizes a
person proposing to construct a leadership project to apply to the Governor
for certification that the leadership project is eligible for streamlining
pursuant to the act.

This bill would establish a new certification process for a solar
photovoltaic, terrestrial wind electrical generation powerplant, or thermal
powerplant that does not use fossil or nuclear fuels, with a generating
capacity of 50 megawatts or more, an energy storage system capable of
storing 200 megawatthours or more of electricity, an electric transmission
line from those generating or storage facilities to a point of junction with
an interconnected electrical transmission system, or a facility for the
manufacture, production, or assembly of energy storage systems or their
components, wind systems or their components, solar photovoltaic systems
or their components, or specialized products, components, or systems that
are integral to renewable energy or energy storage technologies with a capital
investment of at least $250,000,000 over a period of 5 years. The bill would
authorize a person proposing to construct those facilities, no later than June
30, 2029, to file an application for certification with the Energy Commission.
The bill would require the Energy Commission to review the application,
as provided, and to determine whether to issue the certification within a
specified time period. The bill would require the Energy Commission to
forward the application to a local government having land use and related
jurisdiction in the areas of the proposed site and related facility and would
require the local agencies to review the application and submit comments
on the application, as provided, thereby imposing a state-mandated local
program. The bill would authorize local agencies to request a fee from the
Energy Commission to reimburse the local agency for the actual and added
costs of the review by the local agency. The bill would prohibit the Energy
Commission from issuing the certificate unless the Energy Commission
makes certain findings. The bill would, except as provided, specify that the
issuance of the certification is in lieu of any permit, certificate, or similar
document required by a state, local, or regional agency, or federal agency,
to the extent permitted by federal law, for those facilities. The bill would
designate the Energy Commission as the lead agency for purposes of CEQA
in regards to the certification decision. The bill would specify procedures
by which the Energy Commission is to conduct the environmental review
for its certification decision. The bill would provide that a facility certified
under these provision is a certified leadership project under the Jobs and

95


Ch. 61 oosifin =

Economic Improvement Through Environmental Leadership Act of 2021,
without the need for any action from the applicant or the Governor, if the
commission makes certain findings and takes certain actions. The bill would
require the Judicial Council to adopt a rule of court to establish procedures
that require actions or proceedings related to the certification of an
environmental impact report or the issuance of the certification for any site
and related facility to be resolved within 270 days, and, if the Jobs and
Economic Improvement Through Environmental Leadership Act of 2021
is inoperative or repealed, would require those procedures to become
operative.

(3) This bill would require the Energy Commission to implement and
administer the Distributed Electricity Backup Assets Program to incentivize
the construction of cleaner and more efficient distributed energy assets that
would serve as on-call emergency supply or load reduction for the state’s
electrical grid during extreme events, as provided. The bill would require
the Energy Commission to implement and administer the Demand Side Grid
Support Program to incentivize dispatchable customer load reduction and
backup generation operation as on-call emergency supply and load reduction
for the state’s electrical grid during extreme events, as provided. The bill
would create the Strategic Reliability Reserve Fund, and the Distributed
Electricity Backup Assets Account and the Demand Side Grid Support
Account in the fund. The bill would continuously appropriate to the Energy
Commission moneys in the fund for purposes of adding resources to the
electrical grid to ensure electrical grid reliability and support the clean
energy transition, thereby making an appropriation. The bill would
continuously appropriate moneys into the accounts to the Energy
Commission for the implementation of the above-described programs,
respectively, thereby making an appropriation.

This bill would require the Department of Water Resources, in consultation
with the Energy Commission, to implement those projects, purchases, and
contracts to carry out the above-described purposes. The bill would provide
that CEQA does not apply to contracts entered into, or approval granted by,
the department to implement those projects, purchases, and contracts. The
bill would establish the Department of Water Resources Electricity Supply
Reliability Reserve Fund and would continuously appropriate moneys in
the fund to the Department of Water Resources to cover the costs incurred
by the department in the implementation of the bill, thereby making an
appropriation.

This bill would, until July 1, 2027, vest the Energy Commission with the
exclusive jurisdiction to certify sites on which facilities for actions described
above that are undertaken by the department are proposed to be located.
The bill would require the department to submit an application for
certification for those sites, as provided. The bill would require the Energy
Commission to establish a process to expedite the review of an application,
as provided, and to determine whether to issue the certification within a
specified time period. The bill would prohibit the certification ofa site under

95


—5— Ch. 61

certain circumstances. The bill would exempt from CEQA the certification
of a site and related facilities by the Energy Commission.

(4) Existing law vests the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) with
regulatory authority over public utilities, including electrical corporations.
Existing law requires the PUC to require each electrical corporation to
identify a separate rate component to collect revenues used to fund certain
programs. Existing law requires the rate component to be a nonbypassable
element of local distribution service and collected on the basis of usage.

This bill would repeal the requirement that the nonbypassable element
be collected on the basis of usage.

Existing law requires the PUC to continue the California Alternative
Rates for Energy (CARE) program to provide assistance to low-income
electric and gas customers with annual household incomes that are no greater
than 200% of the federal poverty guideline levels. For electrical corporations
with 100,000 or more customer accounts, existing law requires the PUC to
ensure, among other things, that the average effective CARE discount is
not less than 30% or more than 35% of the revenues that would have been
produced for the same billed usage by non-CARE customers and that the
average effective discount, as determined by the PUC, reflects any charges
not paid by CARE customers.

This bill would instead require that the average effective discount, as
determined by the PUC, not reflect any charges for which CARE customers
are exempted, discounts to fixed charges or other rates paid by non-CARE
customers, or bill savings resulting from participation in other programs.

Existing law authorizes the PUC to adopt new, or expand existing, fixed
charges, as defined, for the purpose of collecting a reasonable portion of
the fixed costs of providing electric service to residential customers. Existing
law requires the PUC to require each electrical corporation to offer default
rates to residential customers with at least two usage tiers, as provided.
Existing law requires the PUC to ensure that the approved charges do not,
among other things, unreasonably impair incentives for conservation and
energy efficiency. Existing law authorizes the PUC to authorize fixed charges
that do not exceed certain amounts per residential customer account per
month, as provided.

This bill would delete the requirement that each electrical corporation
offer default rates to residential customers with at least two usage tiers. The
bill would additionally require the PUC to ensure that the approved fixed
charges do not unreasonably impair incentives for beneficial electrification
and greenhouse gas reduction. The bill would instead authorize the PUC to
authorize fixed charges for any rate schedule applicable to residential
customer accounts. The bill would eliminate the cap on the amount of the
fixed charge that the PUC may authorize. The bill would require the fixed
charge to be established on an income-graduated basis, as provided, with
no fewer than 3 income thresholds so that low-income ratepayers in each
baseline territory would realize a lower average monthly bill without making
any changes in usage. The bill would require the PUC, no later than July 1,
2024, to authorize a fixed charge for default residential rates. The bill would

95


Ch. 61 —6—

prohibit the PUC from applying the composite tier method to the treatment
of any revenues resulting from any fixed charge adopted pursuant to these
provisions.

Under existing law, a violation of the Public Utilities Act or any order,
decision, rule, direction, demand, or requirement of the PUC is a crime.

Because the provisions of this bill are within the act and require action
by the PUC to implement their requirements, a violation of these provisions
would impose a state-mandated local program.

(5) The Personal Income Tax Law and the Corporation Tax Law, in
conformity with federal income tax law, generally define “gross income”
as income from whatever source derived, and provide various exclusions
from gross income.

This bill, for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2022, and
before January 1, 2027, would exclude from gross income any amount of
bill credits received by a customer from a utility applicant pursuant to those
acts. The bill would repeal these provisions on December |, 2027.

(6) Existing law requires any bill authorizing a new tax expenditure to
contain, among other things, specific goals, purposes, and objectives that
the tax expenditure will achieve, detailed performance indicators, and data
collection requirements.

This bill, for specified provisions, would provide findings to comply with
the additional information requirement for any bill authorizing a new tax
expenditure.

(7) The bill would include findings that certain changes proposed by this
bill address a matter of statewide concern rather than a municipal affair and,
therefore, apply to all cities, including charter cities.

(8) The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local
agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory
provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.

This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for
specified reasons.

(9) This bill would appropriate $200,000,000 from the General Fund to
the Energy Commission for the 202 1-22 fiscal year to be used for a program
to provide incentives for demand side grid support and associated mitigation
costs, as specified.

(10) This bill would declare that it is to take effect immediately as a bill
providing for appropriations related to the Budget Bill.

Appropriation: yes.

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
SECTION 1. Article 13 (commencing with Section 16429.8) is added

to Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code, to
read:

95


—7— Ch. 61
Article 13. 2022 California Arrearage Payment Program

16429.8. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:

(a) On March 4, 2020, Governor Newsom proclaimed that a state of
emergency exists in California as a result of the rise of COVID-19.

(b) A nationwide emergency in response to COVID-19 was declared on
March 13, 2020, pursuant to the federal Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. Sec. 5121 et seq.). A federal
major disaster declaration for California was approved on March 20, 2020,
and is still in effect.

(c) Under Section 139 of the Internal Revenue Code, certain payments
made by the state to individuals in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic
qualify as disaster relief payments that are excluded from the recipient’s
gross income.

(d) Asa federal declared disaster, the COVID-19 pandemic is considered
a qualified disaster for purposes of Section 139 of the Internal Revenue
Code. Those payments made in the 2021-22 state fiscal year towards utility
bills under the California Arrearage Payment Program (Article 12
(commencing with Section 16429.5)), which was established in the 2021
State Budget, were considered qualified disaster relief payments by the
Internal Revenue Service and excluded from an individual’s gross income.

(e) Californians continue to struggle to afford the cost of energy due to
the economic impacts of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.

(f) Benefits issued under this chapter are for past due energy utility bills
accrued during the COVID-19 pandemic and the Legislature intends for
them to be treated as qualified disaster relief payments that are to be excluded
from individual taxable gross income pursuant to Section 139 of the Internal
Revenue Code.

16429.9. For purposes of this article, the following definitions apply:

(a) “2022 CAPP” means the 2022 California Arrearage Payment Program
established in Section 16429.10.

(b) “COVID-19 pandemic bill relief period” means the period starting
March 4, 2020, and ending December 31, 2021, inclusive of both start and
end dates.

(c) “Department” means the Department of Community Services and
Development.

(d) “Electrical cooperative” has the same meaning as defined in Section
2776 of the Public Utilities Code.

(e) “Electrical corporation” has the same meaning as defined in Section
218 of the Public Utilities Code.

(f) “Gas corporation” has the same meaning as defined in Section 222
of the Public Utilities Code.

(g) “Load-serving entity” has the same meaning as defined in Section
380 of the Public Utilities Code.

(h) “Local publicly owned electric utility’ has the same meaning as
defined in Section 224.3 of the Public Utilities Code.

95


Ch. 61 —s8—

(i) “Past due bills” means active residential customer accounts with a
past due balance incurred during the COVID-19 pandemic bill relief period
and includes 2022 CAPP-eligible residential customer accounts that have
payment plans or payment arrangements.

(j) “Program notice” means official guidance issued by the department
regarding 2022 CAPP implementation and administration.

(k) “Utility applicant” means any of the following:

(1) A local publicly owned electric utility.

(2) An electrical corporation.

(3) A gas corporation.

(4) An electrical cooperative.

16429.10. (a) Upon appropriation, the 2022 California Arrearage
Payment Program is established in the Department of Community Services
and Development.

(b) The department shall release program notices and post program
notices related to 2022 CAPP administration on its public-facing internet
website.

(c) All active residential utility customers with past due bills incurred
during the COVID-19 pandemic bill relief period are considered eligible
for 2022 CAPP assistance and shall be included in a utility applicant’s
request for 2022 CAPP funding.

(1) The department and utility applicants shall prioritize the issuance of
2022 CAPP assistance in the following order:

(A) Active residential customers with past due bills and who, absent the
2022 CAPP assistance or any other protection or assistance provided by the
utility applicant, might be subject to service disconnection, consistent with
current law, due to nonpayment of balances incurred during the COVID-19
pandemic bill relief period.

(B) Active residential customers with past due bills incurred during the
COVID-19 pandemic bill relief period.

(2) The department, in its application approval and allocation notice to
utility applicants, shall direct utility applicants on how 2022 CAPP assistance
will be applied to each of the priority groups. A utility applicant shall be
responsible for correcting any misapplication of 2022 CAPP assistance
when that failure was due to a utility applicant not properly applying 2022
CAPP assistance to residential customer accounts in accordance with
program notices, 2022 CAPP application terms and conditions, and guidance
issued by the department.

(d) Within 90 days of receiving funds, upon appropriation, the department
shall make available an online application for utility applicants to request
2022 CAPP funding for residential customers.

(1) To receive 2022 CAPP funding, a utility applicant shall complete a
2022 CAPP application, submit all necessary data and information to support
the utility applicant’s 2022 CAPP application, execute the 2022 CAPP terms
and conditions document, and comply with all department-issued program
notices.

95


—9— Ch. 61

(2) All utility applicant 2022 CAPP applications shall include the total
number of eligible residential accounts, the total amount of eligible
residential account arrearages incurred during the COVID-19 pandemic bill
relief period, and identify for each eligible residential account the
corresponding account number and past due bill balance accumulated during
the COVID-19 pandemic bill relief period.

(3) The general manager, utility director, or a designee shall certify that
the 2022 CAPP application is true and accurate and execute the 2022 CAPP
terms and conditions.

(4) (A) Customer information shall be subject to Section 6254.16. This
subparagraph shall become inoperative on January 1, 2023.

(B) Customer information shall be subject to Section 7927.410. This
subparagraph shall become operative on January 1, 2023.

(e) There shall be a 30-day application timeframe in which utility
applicants may apply to the department for 2022 CAPP funds. The
department shall contact a utility applicant that does not respond during the
initial application period to inquire as to the status of the utility applicant’s
2022 CAPP application.

(f) The department shall review utility applicant 2022 CAPP applications
for completeness and confirm that utility applicants’ submissions support
the total amount of financial assistance requested on behalf of residential
customers. Incomplete 2022 CAPP applications shall be returned to the
utility applicant for corrections or amendments consistent with department
notes or directives.

(g) One billion one hundred ninety-seven million dollars ($1,197,000,000)
appropriated in Item 4700-101-3398 of the Budget Act of 2022 shall be
used for the 2022 CAPP program. The allocation may be adjusted for the
purposes of administrative costs. Upon appropriation, the following specified
amounts shall be allocated for each utility category. Funding allocation to
one of the categories that is not necessary for assistance for that category
maybe reallocated to another category.

(1) Two hundred thirty-nine million four hundred thousand dollars
($239,400,000) shall be allocated for financial assistance to customers of
local publicly owned electric utilities and electrical cooperatives.

(2) Nine hundred fifty-seven million six hundred thousand dollars
($957,600,000) shall be allocated for financial assistance to customers of
electrical corporations and gas corporations, including customers served by
a community choice aggregator.

(h) To establish statewide 2022 CAPP allocations, the department shall
develop an allocation formula for determining an individual utility
applicant’s share of 2022 CAPP funds based on the proportional share of
the total statewide energy utility arrearages.

(1) When determining statewide 2022 CAPP allocations, the department
shall ensure utility applicant allocations do not exceed the total amount of
eligible arrearages reported in the utility applicant’s 2022 CAPP application.
If there are remaining 2022 CAPP funds after the initial allocation
determination, the department shall redistribute the remaining 2022 CAPP

95


Ch, 61 —10—

funds to utility applicants according to their proportional share of the total
statewide energy utility arrearages within each utility category.

(2) Upon approving a utility applicant’s 2022 CAPP application, the
department shall submit to the utility applicant an application approval and
allocation notice that identifies the utility applicant’s allocation along with
directions on how to apply 2022 CAPP funds to customer accounts by
priority group. The department shall make all application approval and
allocation notices available on its public-facing internet website.

(3) Utility applicants shall provide benefits to residential customers in
accordance with program notices, the 2022 CAPP application terms and
conditions document, and guidance issued by the department.

(4) The department shall approve utility applicant’s 2022 CAPP
applications, set statewide allocations, and disburse funds within seven
months of the appropriation for the 2022 CAPP.

(i) Within 60 days of receiving 2022 CAPP funds, a utility applicant
shall issue 2022 CAPP benefits to its residential customers as bill credits
to help address the past due bills and shall include a statement that the credits
are a result of 2022 CAPP funding or other statement as approved by a
department-issued program notice.

(1) Between the time when a utility applicant submits its 2022 CAPP
application and the department completes the disbursement of CAPP
allocations to all utility applicants, a utility applicant shall not discontinue
service due to nonpayment by those residential customers with arrearages
accrued during the COVID-19 pandemic bill relief period.

(2) A utility applicant shall not disconnect a residential customer’s utility
service, regardless of balance owed after applying a 2022 CAPP benefit,
for 90 days after a 2022 CAPP benefit is applied.

(3) Ifa residential customer has a remaining balance after a 2022 CAPP
benefit is applied, the utility applicant shall notify the residential customer
of the option to enter into an extended payment plan with late fees and
penalties waived. The utility applicant shall not discontinue service to the
residential customer while the residential customer remains current on the
repayment plan.

(4) Utility applicants shall waive any associated late fees and accrued
interest for residential customers that are awarded 2022 CAPP benefits.

(5) An electrical corporation shall use existing proportional payment
processes adopted by the Public Utilities Commission in response to the
COVID-19 pandemic to allocate any partial payments made by residential
customers to the utility applicant and other load serving entities in proportion
to their respective shares of the outstanding customer charges.

(j) Anelectrical corporation shall issue 2022 CAPP benefits to residential
customer for past due bills owed to the utility applicant and other
load-serving entities serving the residential customer in proportion to their
respective shares of customer arrearages.

(k) Within six months of a utility applicant’s receipt of its 2022 CAPP
allocation, the utility applicant shall submit all reporting required by the
department detailed in a program notice. The utility applicant shall remit

95


—T— Ch. 61

payment of any unapplied 2022 CAPP benefits to the department as part of
its reporting to the department.

(J) Within 60 days of receiving reporting from utility applicants pursuant
to subdivision (k), the department shall provide to the Legislature, and make
available on its public-facing internet website, a report. The report shall be
submitted in conformance with Section 9795 and shall include all of the
following:

(1) Total arrearage amount applied for statewide.

(2) Total active residential customers in arrears applied for statewide.

(3) Total 2022 CAPP funds applied for by utility applicants.

(4) Total 2022 CAPP funds approved by the department and disbursed
to utility applicants statewide.

(5) Total 2022 CAPP funds distributed by utility applicants.

(6) Total 2022 CAPP funds not expended and returned to the department
by utility applicants.

(7) Total active residential customers, statewide, included in 2022 CAPP
applications received by the department.

(8) Total active residential customers, by utility applicant, included in
2022 CAPP applications received by the department.

(9) Total active residential customers, statewide, that received a 2022
CAPP benefit.

(10) Average 2022 CAPP benefit, statewide, received by active residential
customers.

(11) Total active residential customers, by utility applicant, that received
a 2022 CAPP benefit.

(12) Average 2022 CAPP benefit, by utility applicant, received by active
residential customers.

(13) Total expenditures by the department for the administration of 2022
CAPP.

(m) Utility applicants shall provide all documents and data necessary for
the department, or its designee, to complete a review and audit of 2022
CAPP benefits applied to eligible residential accounts. The department shall
provide 30 days’ notice to utility applicants of any document requests to
support departmental review and audit.

(n) Notwithstanding any other law, the payment authorized pursuant to
this section shall be treated in the same manner as the federal earned income
refund for the purpose of determining eligibility to receive benefits under
Division 9 (commencing with Section 10000) of the Welfare and Institutions
Code, excluding benefits under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 14000)
of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or amounts of
those benefits.

(0) Notwithstanding any other law, the payment authorized pursuant to
this section shall not be considered as income and shall not be taken into
account as resources for a period of 12 months from receipt, for purposes
of determining the eligibility of the individual, or any other individual, for
benefits or assistance or the amount or extent of benefits or assistance under
any state or local program not covered in subdivision (n). With respect to

95


Ch. 61 —12—

a state or local program, this subdivision shall only be implemented to the
extent that it does not conflict with federal law relating to that program, and
that any required federal approval or waiver is first obtained for that program.

SEC. 2. Section 25216.8 is added to the Public Resources Code, to read:

25216.8. (a) On or before January 31, 2023, the commission, in
consultation with the Public Utilities Commission, the Department of Water
Resources, and California balancing authorities, including, but not limited
to, the Independent System Operator, shall issue a written report to the Joint
Legislative Budget Committee addressing all of the following:

(1) An evaluation of how the state, load-serving entities, as defined in
Section 380 of the Public Utilities Code, local publicly owned electric
utilities, as defined in Section 224.3 of the Public Utilities Code, and
California balancing authorities managed summer reliability during 2022.

(2) The magnitude of projected reliability problems in 2023 to 2026,
inclusive.

(3) Potential solutions to addressing reliability concerns. In doing so, the
commission shall evaluate options that rely on state budget actions, statutory
changes, and using existing resource adequacy, integrated resource planning,
and other reliability processes at the Public Utilities Commission and the
Independent System Operator to ensure reliability.

(b) (1) A report to be submitted pursuant to subdivision (a) shall be
submitted in compliance with Section 9795 of the Government Code.

(2) Pursuant to Section 10231.5 of the Government Code, this section is
repealed on January 1, 2027.

SEC. 3. Section 25403.2 of the Public Resources Code is amended to
read:

25403.2. (a) Using the moneys appropriated pursuant to Items
3360-105-0001 and 3360-005-0001 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of
2021, the commission shall implement and administer a statewide program
to incentivize the construction of new multifamily and single-family
market-rate residential buildings as all-electric buildings or with energy
storage systems. The commission shall provide a combined incentive if a
building is both all electric and has an energy storage system.

(b) The program implemented and administered pursuant to this section
shall be known as the Building Initiative for Low-Emissions Development
Program Phase 2.

(c) In implementing and administering the Building Initiative for
Low-Emissions Development Program Phase 2, the commission shall do
all of the following:

(1) Before June 30, 2022, develop and approve program guidelines in a
public process. The Administrative Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5 (commencing
with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government
Code) does not apply to the development and approval of the guidelines.

(2) Make program applications available within 30 days of the
commission approving the guidelines pursuant to paragraph (1).

(3) Ensure, to the extent reasonable, that the program incentivizes the
construction of buildings as all electric or with energy storage systems that

95












































































As a widow who has faithfully contributed to our community, maintaining the quality of life
in Vacaville for my family is of utmost importance. The prospect of biotech in our area
represents a beacon of hope for not only my grandson's future, but also the economic and
educational advancement of Vacaville.

I urge the council to NOT do a moratorium on BESS facilities, taking into account the
informed assurances provided by the hired experts with years of experience. Not someone
who has done their own research and without decades of work in this field. Your decision
tonight will shape Vacaville for tomorrow - let's choose progress and opportunity.

Sincerely,

Mary Johnson












DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




               Buyer: City and County of San Francisco, acting by       Seller: Corby Energy Storage, LLC
               and through its Public Utilities Commission,
               CleanPowerSF
              Credit and Collections:                                  Credit and Collections:
                 Attn: Edward Kwong                                      Attn: Brantley Pierce
                 Phone: (415) 551-4518                                   Phone: 561-694-3296
                 E-mail: EKwong@sfwater.org                              Facsimile: 561-304-5849
                                                                         Email: CreditMailbox@nee.com
              With additional Notices of an Event of Default or
              Potential Event of Default to:                           With additional Notices of an Event of Default or
                                                                       Potential Event of Default to:
                 Attn: Michael Hyams Phone: (415) 554-1590               Attn: General Counsel
                 Email: MHyams@sfwater.org                               Email: NEER-General-
                                                                         Counsel@nexteraenergy.com
                 Attn: Theresa Cho, Deputy City Attorney Phone:
                 (415) 554-6549
                 Email: theresa.cho@sfcityatty.org




                                                                    -iii-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                              Page

             ARTICLE 1:       DEFINITIONS................................................................................................................... 1
             ARTICLE 2:       CONDITIONS PRECEDENT AND TERM ................................................................... 15
                     2.1      Conditions Precedent to Term of Agreement ................................................................... 15
                     2.2      Term, Delivery Term, and Extension ............................................................................... 16
                     2.3      Extended Delivery Term and Purchase Option................................................................. 17
             ARTICLE 3:       PURCHASE AND SALE OF PRODUCT ...................................................................... 18
                     3.1      Purchase and Sale ............................................................................................................. 18
                     3.2      Contract Price ................................................................................................................... 18
                     3.3      Capacity Attributes and Resource Adequacy.................................................................... 19
                     3.4      Ancillary Services ............................................................................................................. 20
                     3.5      Environmental Attributes .................................................................................................. 20
                     3.6      Performance Guarantees ................................................................................................... 20
                     3.7      Surplus Cycles Carry-over ................................................................................................ 21
                     3.8      Compliance Cost Cap ....................................................................................................... 21
             ARTICLE 4:       BILLING, PAYMENT, AND CERTIFICATION .......................................................... 22
                     4.1      Billing and Payment.......................................................................................................... 22
                     4.2      Designated Fund/Limited Obligations .............................................................................. 24
                     4.3      Guaranteed Maximum Costs............................................................................................. 25
             ARTICLE 5:       FACILITY DEVELOPMENT, OPERATION, AND MAINTENANCE ....................... 25
                     5.1      General Obligations .......................................................................................................... 25
                     5.2      Facility Construction and Milestones ............................................................................... 26
                     5.3      Guaranteed Construction Start Date and Guaranteed Commercial Operation Date ......... 27
                     5.4      Storage Capacity Tests...................................................................................................... 31
                     5.5      Operation and Maintenance .............................................................................................. 32
                     5.6      Scheduling ........................................................................................................................ 35
                     5.7      Energy Management ......................................................................................................... 37
                     5.8      Capacity Availability Notice............................................................................................. 38
                     5.9      Outages ............................................................................................................................. 39
             ARTICLE 6:       DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE ASSURANCE ........................................... 40
                     6.1      Grant of Security Interests/Remedies ............................................................................... 40
                     6.2      Seller Development Assurance and Performance Assurance ........................................... 41
                     6.3      Buyer Performance Assurance.......................................................................................... 42
                     6.4      Letter of Credit.................................................................................................................. 43

                                                                                   -iv-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             ARTICLE 7:       FORCE MAJEURE ......................................................................................................... 44
                     7.1      Remedial Action ............................................................................................................... 44
                     7.2      Notice ................................................................................................................................ 44
                     7.3      Termination Due to Force Majeure Event ........................................................................ 44
             ARTICLE 8:       DEFAULT, REMEDIES, AND TERMINATION .......................................................... 44
                     8.1      Events of Default .............................................................................................................. 44
                     8.2      Termination for Default .................................................................................................... 46
                     8.3      Limitation of Liability/Liquidated Damages .................................................................... 48
             ARTICLE 9:       INDEMNIFICATION ..................................................................................................... 49
                     9.1      Seller Indemnification Prior to Commercial Operation Date ........................................... 49
                     9.2      Seller and Buyer Indemnification after Commercial Operation Date ............................... 49
                     9.3      Environmental Indemnity ................................................................................................. 49
                     9.4      Notice ................................................................................................................................ 49
             ARTICLE 10:      REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES................................................................ 49
                     10.1     Seller’s Representations and Warranties .......................................................................... 49
                     10.2     Buyer’s Representations and Warranties .......................................................................... 50
                     10.3     Covenants.......................................................................................................................... 51
                     10.4     Additional Buyer Representation and Warranty ............................................................... 51
             ARTICLE 11:      MISCELLANEOUS ........................................................................................................ 51
                     11.1     Assignment ....................................................................................................................... 51
                     11.2     Proprietary or Confidential Information ........................................................................... 54
                     11.3     Dispute Resolution; Choice of Law .................................................................................. 55
                     11.4     Audit ................................................................................................................................. 55
                     11.5     General .............................................................................................................................. 55
                     11.6     Mobile Sierra .................................................................................................................... 59
                     11.7     Forward Contract .............................................................................................................. 59
                     11.8     Notices .............................................................................................................................. 59
                     11.9     Counterparts ...................................................................................................................... 59




                                                                                    -v-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBITS

                     The following Exhibits constitute a part of this Agreement and are incorporated into the Agreement
             by reference.

                     EXHIBIT A                 SELLER DOCUMENTATION OF CONDITIONS PRECEDENT
                     EXHIBIT B                 FACILITY DESCRIPTION AND SITE DRAWINGS
                     EXHIBIT C                 INTENTIONALLY RESERVED
                     EXHIBIT D                 INSURANCE COVERAGES
                     EXHIBIT E                 CONSTRUCTION START CERTIFICATION
                     EXHIBIT F                 PROGRESS REPORTING FORM
                     EXHIBIT G-1               FORM OF COMMERCIAL OPERATION CERTIFICATION
                     EXHIBIT G-2               FORM OF INSTALLED CAPACITY CERTIFICATION
                     EXHIBIT H-1               FORM OF LETTER OF CREDIT
                     EXHIBIT H-2               FORM OF SIGHT DRAFT
                     EXHIBIT I                 FORM OF REPLACEMENT RA NOTICE
                     EXHIBIT J                 OPERATING PARAMETERS
                     EXHIBIT K                 STORAGE CAPACITY TESTS
                     EXHIBIT L                 AVAILABILITY GUARANTEE
                     EXHIBIT M                 ROUND TRIP EFFICIENCY ADJUSTMENT
                     EXHIBIT N                 SOCIAL IMPACT PARTNERSHIP
                     EXHIBIT O                 FORM OF GUARANTY




                                                                -vi-




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             Applicable Laws: Any statute, law, treaty, rule, tariff, regulation, ordinance, code, permit, enactment,
             injunction, order, writ, decision, authorization, judgment, decree or other legal or regulatory determination
             or restriction by a court or Governmental Authority of competent jurisdiction, including the CAISO, or any
             binding interpretation of the foregoing, as any of them is amended or supplemented from time to time, that
             apply to either or both of the Parties or the terms of the Agreement.

             Availability Excused Event: Has the meaning set forth in Exhibit L.

             Availability Notice: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.8(b).

             Availability Standards: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Available Capacity: Means the capacity of the Facility, expressed in whole MWs, that is mechanically
             available to charge and discharge Energy and provide Ancillary Services.

             Bankrupt: With respect to any entity, such entity (a) files a petition or otherwise commences, authorizes
             or acquiesces in the commencement of a proceeding or cause of action under any bankruptcy, insolvency,
             reorganization or similar law, (b) has any such petition filed or commenced against it and such case filed
             against it is not dismissed within sixty (60) calendar days, (c) makes an assignment or any general
             arrangement for the benefit of creditors, (d) otherwise becomes bankrupt or insolvent (however evidenced),
             (e) has a liquidator, administrator, receiver, trustee, conservator or similar official appointed with respect
             to it or any substantial portion of its property or assets, or (f) is generally unable to pay its debts as they fall
             due.

             Board of Supervisors: The Board of Supervisors for the City and County of San Francisco.

             Business Day: Any day except a Saturday, Sunday, a Federal Reserve Bank holiday, or a City and County
             of San Francisco holiday, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. local time for the relevant Party’s
             principal place of business. The relevant Party, in each instance unless otherwise specified, shall be the
             Party from whom the notice, payment or delivery is being sent and by whom the notice or payment or
             delivery is to be received.

             Buyer: The City and County of San Francisco, acting by and through its Public Utilities Commission,
             CleanPowerSF.

             Buyer Dispatched Test: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(c).

             Buyer Financial Covenants: Has the meaning set forth in Section 6.3(a)(i).

             Buyer Indemnified Party: Has the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.

             CAISO: The California Independent System Operator Corporation, or its functional successor.

             CAISO Certification: Means the certification and testing requirements for an energy storage unit set forth
             in the CAISO Tariff that are applicable to the Facility, including certification and testing for PMAX, and
             PMIN associated with such storage units, that are applicable to the Facility, but excluding testing and
             certification for Ancillary Services which shall not be required as a condition to the occurrence of the
             Commercial Operation Date.

             CAISO Charges Invoice: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.6(c).



                                                                     -2-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             CAISO Dispatch: Any Charging Notice or Discharging Notice given by the CAISO to the Facility,
             whether through Automated Dispatch System, Automatic Generation Control (as those terms are defined
             in the CAISO Tariff) or any successor communication protocol, communicating an Ancillary Service
             Award (as defined in the CAISO Tariff) or directing the Facility to charge or discharge at a specific MW
             rate for a specified period of time or amount of MWh.

             CAISO Tariff: The California Independent System Operator Corporation, Fifth Replacement FERC
             Electric Tariff, Business Practice Manuals (BPMs), and Operating Procedures, as may be amended,
             supplemented or replaced (in whole or in part) from time to time.

             Capacity Attributes: Any current or future defined characteristic (including the ability to store, charge,
             or discharge energy at a given capacity level, provide Ancillary Services, and ramp up or ramp down at a
             given rate), certificate, tag, credit, flexibility, locational, or dispatchability attribute, whether general in
             nature or specific as to the location or any other attribute of the Facility, intended to value any aspect of the
             capacity of the Facility to store, charge, or discharge energy, including Resource Adequacy Benefits, any
             accounting construct, or any other measure by the CPUC, the CAISO, the FERC, or any other
             Governmental Authority with jurisdiction.

             Capacity Damages: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3(j).

             Capacity Procurement Mechanism (CPM) Soft Offer Cap: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO
             Tariff.

             CEQA: The California Environmental Quality Act, California Public Resources Code Sections 21000, et.
             seq., as it may be amended from time to time.

             Change in Law: Has the meaning set forth in Section 11.5(f).

             Charging Energy: The Energy delivered to the Facility pursuant to a Charging Notice as measured by the
             Facility Meter, as adjusted pursuant to applicable CAISO requirements for any applicable Electrical Losses
             or Station Use. All Charging Energy shall be used solely to charge the Facility. For avoidance of doubt:
             (i) Charging Energy shall be measured at the Facility Meter, as adjusted pursuant to applicable CAISO
             requirements for any applicable Electrical Losses, and (ii) there is no Station Use during periods in which
             Charging Energy is being delivered.

             Charging Notice: The operating instruction and any subsequent updates given by Buyer, Buyer’s SC, or
             the CAISO to Seller, directing the Facility to charge at a specific MW rate for a specified period of time or
             amount of MWh.

             City: The City and County of San Francisco.

             Claiming Party: Has the meaning set forth in the definition of Force Majeure Event.

             CleanPowerSF: Buyer’s community choice aggregation program.

             Commercial Operation: The condition of the Facility existing when Seller has fulfilled all of the
             conditions set forth in Section 2.2(b)(ii) and Seller has provided notice to Buyer in the form of the
             Commercial Operation Certification set forth in Exhibit G-1.

             Commercial Operation Certification: Seller’s certification of Commercial Operation for the Facility in
             the form set forth as Exhibit G-1, executed by a Licensed Professional Engineer.


                                                                    -3-




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             Daily Delay Liquidated Damages Rate or Daily Delay LD Rate: Has the meaning set forth in
             Section 5.3(b)(iii).

             Damage Payment: The amount to be paid by the Defaulting Party to the Non-defaulting Party in the event
             of a termination of this Agreement prior to the COD and as calculated pursuant to Section 8.2(b).

             Day-Ahead Market or DAM: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Defaulting Party: The Party that has caused an Event of Default.

             Delivery Point: Vaca-Dixon 230 kV substation bus.

             Delivery Term: Has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(b)(i).

             Development Assurance: The collateral provided by Seller to Buyer to secure Seller’s obligations
             hereunder in accordance with Section 6.2(a)(i) of this Agreement.

             Discharging Energy: All Energy discharged from the Facility to the Delivery Point pursuant to CAISO’s
             dispatch based on a Discharging Notice, as measured at the Facility Meter and adjusted pursuant to
             applicable CAISO requirements for any applicable Electrical Losses. For the avoidance of doubt: (i) all
             Discharging Energy will have originally been delivered to the Facility as Charging Energy, and (ii) there is
             no Station Use during periods in which Discharging Energy is being delivered.

             Discharging Notice: An operating instruction, and any subsequent updates, given by Buyer, Buyer’s SC,
             or the CAISO to the Facility, directing the Facility discharge Discharging Energy at a specific MW rate for
             a specified period of time or to an amount of MWh.

             Dispatch Notice: Any Charging Notice, Discharging Notice and any subsequent updates, given by the
             CAISO, Buyer, or Buyer’s SC, to Seller directing the Facility to charge Charging Energy or to discharge
             Discharging Energy at a specific MWh rate to a specified Stored Energy Level; provided, any such
             operating instruction or updates shall be in accordance with the Operating Parameters.

             Dispatch Instruction: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Early Termination Date: Has the meaning set forth in Section 8.2(a)(i).

             Economic Losses: With respect to the Non-Defaulting Party, an amount equal to the present value of the
             economic loss to it, if any (exclusive of Costs), resulting from the termination of this Agreement for the
             remainder of the Term, determined in a commercially reasonable manner, and subject to Sections 8.2(c)
             and 8.3. Factors used in determining the loss of economic benefit may include reference to information
             either available to the Non-Defaulting Party internally or supplied by one or more third parties, including
             quotations (either firm or indicative) for a like amount of a like Product at the same or reasonably equivalent
             pNode of relevant rates, prices, yields, yield curves, volatilities, spreads or other relevant market data in the
             relevant markets, market price referent, market prices for a comparable transaction, forward price curves
             based on economic analysis of the relevant markets, settlement prices for a comparable transaction at liquid
             trading hubs (e.g. NYMEX), all of which should be calculated for the remainder of the Term to determine
             the value of the Product, including Environmental Attributes and Capacity Attributes. The Non-Defaulting
             Party shall not be required to enter into replacement transactions to establish Economic Losses. Economic
             Losses shall exclude (1) associated loss of investment tax credits and other lost tax benefits, (2) any costs,
             penalties, fees, or charges associated with the termination of related financing agreements or similar



                                                                    -5-






DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             Force Majeure Event: An event or circumstance, including without limitation, a natural disaster,
             lightning, flood, earthquake, tornado, fire, explosion, epidemic, pandemic, war, riot, act of terrorism,
             sabotage, destruction by a third party, or civil disturbance, which prevents one Party (“Claiming Party”)
             from performing all or a portion of its material obligations under this Agreement, which event or
             circumstance was not anticipated as of the Execution Date, or, if anticipated, could not be avoided or
             overcome through reasonable efforts, which is not within the reasonable control of (whether direct or
             indirect), or the result of the action or inaction of, the Claiming Party, and which, by the exercise of due
             diligence, the Claiming Party is unable to overcome or avoid or cause to be avoided. Neither Party may
             raise a claim of Force Majeure based in whole or in part on:

                     (a)      failures or delays by the Transmission Provider and/or the CAISO in entering into, or
                              performing under, any agreements with Seller contemplated by this Agreement, including
                              a failure to complete, or a delay in completing, interconnection or Electric System
                              Upgrades by the Commercial Operation Date except to the extent that such delay is solely
                              caused by a Force Majeure Event;

                     (b)      a strike, work stoppage, or labor dispute;

                     (c)      Seller’s failure to obtain additional funds, including funds authorized by a state or the
                              federal government or agencies thereof, to supplement the payments made by Buyer
                              pursuant to this Agreement;

                     (d)      Seller’s inability to obtain Permits of any type, except where such failure is solely caused
                              by a Force Majeure Event; provided, however, that Seller’s inability to obtain Permits may
                              constitute a Permitted Extension as specified in Section 5.3(c)(iv);

                     (e)      Seller’s inability to obtain sufficient labor, equipment, materials, or other resources to build
                              or operate the Facility, except to the extent such inability is caused by a Force Majeure
                              Event;

                     (f)      any equipment failure, except to the extent such failure is caused by a Force Majeure Event;

                     (g)      a Forced Outage except to the extent such Forced Outage is caused by a Force Majeure
                              Event;

                     (h)      a Curtailment Order, except to the extent that such Curtailment Order is caused by a Force
                              Majeure Event; or

                     (i)      economic conditions that render a Party’s performance of this Agreement at the Contract
                              Price unprofitable or otherwise uneconomic (including an increase in component costs for
                              any reason, including foreign or domestic tariffs), including Buyer’s ability to buy Product
                              at a lower price, or Seller’s ability to sell Product at a higher price.

             Forced Labor: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1(g).

             Forced Outage: Any unplanned reduction or suspension of the operation of the Facility or unavailability
             of the Product in whole or in part in response to a mechanical, electrical, or equipment malfunction and any
             other unavailability of the Facility, in whole or in part, for maintenance or repair that is not a Planned
             Outage and not the result of Force Majeure.

             Full Capacity Deliverability Status or FCDS: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.


                                                                   -8-




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             materials, asbestos, urea formaldehyde foam insulation, and transformers or other equipment that contain
             polychlorinated biphenyls, and (c) any other chemical or other material or substance for which exposure to
             or release of such substance is prohibited, limited, or regulated by Applicable Laws.

             Indemnified Party: Has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2.

             Indemnifying Party: Has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2.

             Initial Synchronization: The initial delivery of Discharging Energy to the Delivery Point.

             Installed Capacity: The maximum dependable operating capability to discharge Energy that can be
             sustained for four (4) consecutive hours that achieves Commercial Operation as measured by the Facility
             Meter and adjusted for Electrical Losses to the Delivery Point, as determined by a Storage Capacity Test
             and as set forth in the Installed Capacity Certificate substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit G-2.

             Interconnection Agreement: The agreement and associated documents (or any successor agreement and
             associated documentation) by and among Seller (or its Affiliate), the Transmission Provider, and the
             CAISO governing the terms and conditions of the Facility’s interconnection with the CAISO grid, including
             any description of the plan for interconnection of the Facility to the Transmission Provider’s system.

             Interconnection Facilities: The interconnection facilities, control and protective devices and metering
             facilities required to connect the Facility to the transmission system as set forth in the Interconnection
             Agreement.

             Investment Grade: A Credit Rating of “Baa3” or better from Moody’s or “BBB-” or better from S&P.

             ITC: The investment tax credit established pursuant to Section 48 of the United States Internal Revenue
             Code of 1986.

             kW: Kilowatt.

             LAR Attributes: Means any and all resource adequacy attributes (or other location attributes related to
             system reliability) of the Facility, as may be identified from time to time by the CPUC, CAISO, or other
             Governmental Authority having jurisdiction, that can be counted toward a load serving entity’s LAR.

             Late Payment Fee: Has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b).

             Lender(s): Any Person(s) providing money or extending credit (including any capital lease) to Seller or
             any Affiliate of Seller, including in the form of debt or tax equity, for (a) the construction of the Facility,
             (b) the term or permanent financing of the Facility, or (c) working capital or other ordinary business
             requirements for the Facility. “Lender(s)” shall not include any trade creditor(s) of Seller.

             Letter of Credit or LC: An irrevocable, non-transferable standby letter of credit issued by an Eligible LC
             Bank in a form that is substantially similar to the form contained in Exhibit H-1. Costs of a Letter of Credit
             shall be borne by the applicant for such Letter of Credit.

             Licensed Professional Engineer: A third-party acceptable to Buyer in its reasonable judgment who (a) is
             licensed to practice engineering in California, (b) has training and experience in the power industry specific
             to the technology of the Facility, (c) has no economic relationship, association, or nexus with Seller or
             Buyer, other than to meet the obligations of Seller pursuant to this Agreement, (d) is not a representative of
             a consultant, engineer, contractor, designer or other individual involved in the development of the Facility


                                                                  -10-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             or of a manufacturer or supplier of any equipment installed at the Facility, and (e) is licensed in an
             appropriate engineering discipline for the required certification being made. Notwithstanding the
             foregoing, the Licensed Professional Engineer may be a third party, independent engineer engaged in
             connection with any financing or refinancing, including any tax equity financing, involving the Facility.

             Local Area Requirements or LAR: Means the local area reliability requirements established for load
             serving entities by the CPUC pursuant to the Resource Adequacy Rulings, by CAISO pursuant to the
             CAISO Tariff, or by other Governmental Authority having jurisdiction. LAR may also be known as local
             area reliability, local resource adequacy, local resource adequacy procurement requirements, or local
             capacity requirement in other regulatory proceedings or legislative actions.

             Market Results Interface-Settlements: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Business Practice
             Manual for Definitions and Acronyms.

             Master File: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Mechanical Completion: The condition of the Facility existing when (i) all components and systems of
             the Facility have been properly constructed, installed and functionally tested according to Seller’s EPC
             contract requirements in a safe and prudent manner that does not void any equipment or system warranties
             or violate any permits, approvals or Applicable Laws; (ii) the Facility is ready for startup testing and
             commissioning; (iii) Seller has provided written acceptance to the EPC Contractor of mechanical
             completion as that term is specifically defined in the EPC contract.

             Milestones: The key development activities required for the construction and operation of the Facility, as
             set forth more particularly in Section 5.2(a).

             Monthly Payment: Has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a)(i).

             Monthly Storage Availability: Has the meaning set forth in Exhibit L.

             Monthly Forecast: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.8(a).

             Moody’s: Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.

             MW: Megawatt.

             MWh: Megawatt hour.

             NEOP: Has the meaning set forth in Section 11.1(d)(i).

             NEP: Has the meaning set forth in Section 11.1(d)(i).

             NERC: The North American Electric Reliability Corporation or a successor organization.

             Net Qualifying Capacity or NQC: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Network Upgrades: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Non-Defaulting Party: Has the meaning set forth in Section 8.2(a).

             Notice to Proceed: The full notice to proceed provided by Seller to the EPC Contractor following
             execution of the EPC contract between Seller and such EPC Contractor and satisfaction of all conditions to

                                                                -11-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             performance of such contract, by which Seller authorizes such EPC Contractor to begin construction of the
             Facility without any delay or waiting periods.

             Notification Deadline: Means the applicable deadline for the RA Compliance Showing.

             Operating Parameters: Means the criteria for operating the Facility set forth in Exhibit J.

             Outage Schedule: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.9(a)(i).

             Partial Cycle: Has the meaning set forth in Exhibit J.

             Parties: Buyer and Seller, and their respective successors and permitted assignees.

             Party: Buyer or Seller, and each such Party’s respective successors and permitted assignees.

             Performance Assurance: The collateral provided by a Party to secure that Party’s obligations hereunder
             in accordance with Sections 6.2(b) and 6.3 of this Agreement.

             Permits: All material federal, state or local authorizations, certificates, permits, licenses and approvals
             required by any Governmental Authority for the construction, ownership, operation and maintenance of the
             Facility, including any such permits or approvals required under CEQA or the National Environmental
             Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. Sections 4321 et. seq.

             Permitted Extensions: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3(c).

             Person: An individual, partnership, corporation, business trust, limited liability company, joint stock
             company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, Governmental Authority or other entity.

             Planned Outage: The removal of equipment from service availability for inspection and/or general
             overhaul of one or more major equipment groups. To qualify as a Planned Outage, the maintenance (a)
             must actually be conducted during the Planned Outage, and in Seller’s sole discretion must be of the type
             that is necessary to reliably maintain the Facility, and (b) cannot be reasonably conducted during Facility
             operations.

             PMax: Means the applicable CAISO-certified maximum operating level of the Facility.

             PMin: Means the applicable CAISO-certified minimum operating level of the Facility.

             PNode: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Point of Interconnection or POI: The point on the electrical system where the Facility is physically
             interconnected with the Transmission Provider’s system as further described in the Interconnection
             Agreement.

             Product: Has the meaning set forth in the Cover Sheet.

             Progress Report: A report containing the information set forth in Exhibit F.

             Prudent Operating Practice: Means (a) the applicable practices, methods and acts required by or
             consistent with Applicable Laws and reliability criteria, and otherwise engaged in or approved by a
             significant portion of the electric utility industry during the relevant time period with respect to grid-
             interconnected, utility-scale storage facilities in the Western United States, or (b) any of the practices,

                                                                -12-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             methods and acts which, in light of the facts known at the time the decision was made, could have been
             expected to accomplish the desired result at a reasonable cost consistent with good business practices,
             reliability, safety and expedition. Prudent Operating Practice is not intended to be limited to the optimum
             practice, method or act to the exclusion of all others, but rather to acceptable practices, methods or acts
             generally accepted in the industry with respect to grid-interconnected, utility-scale storage facilities in the
             Western United States. Prudent Operating Practice includes compliance with Applicable Laws, applicable
             reliability criteria, and the criteria, rules and standards promulgated in the National Electric Safety Code
             and the National Electrical Code, as they may be amended or superseded from time to time, including the
             criteria, rules and standards of any successor organizations.

             PTO: Means the Transmission Provider.

             Public Records Laws: The California Public Records Act, California Government Code Sections 6250 et
             seq., and the San Francisco Sunshine Ordinance, San Francisco Administrative Code, Chapter 67, the Ralph
             M. Brown Act, California Government Code Sections 54950, et seq., and any other Applicable Law
             regarding public records as may be amended from time to time.

             Qualifying Capacity: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             RA Compliance Showing: Means the (a) Local RAR compliance or advisory showings (or similar or
             successor showings), (b) RAR compliance or advisory showings (or similar or successor showings), and
             (c) Flexible RAR compliance or advisory showings (or similar successor showings), in each case, an entity
             is required to make to the CAISO pursuant to the CAISO Tariff, to the CPUC (and, to the extent authorized
             by the CPUC, to the CAISO) pursuant to the Resource Adequacy Rulings, or to any Governmental
             Authority.

             RA Deficiency Amount: The liquidated damages payment that Seller shall pay to Buyer for an applicable
             RA Shortfall Month as calculated in accordance with Section 3.3(d)(i).

             RA Guarantee Date: The date by which the Facility is required to achieve Full Capacity Deliverability
             Status, which is seventy-five (75) days after the Commercial Operation Date.

             RA Shortfall Month: Any month, commencing on the RA Guarantee Date, during which (a) the Facility
             has not achieved FCDS or IDS, or (b) the Net Qualifying Capacity of the Facility for such month, was either
             (i) not published by the Notification Deadline, or (ii) was less than the Guaranteed RA Amount.

             RA Shortfall: Has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(d)(i).

             Real-Time Market or RTM: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Reduced RA Quantity: Has the meaning set forth in Section 3.8(d).

             Reliability Coordinator: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Replacement RA: Resource Adequacy provided by Seller to Buyer from a facility other than the Facility
             pursuant to Section 3.3(d)(ii) which has the same flexible attributes and local, zonal, or other locational
             attributes associated with the Facility.

             Resource Adequacy Benefits: The rights and privileges attached to the Facility that satisfy any entity’s
             resource adequacy obligations, as those obligations are set forth in any Resource Adequacy Rulings and



                                                                  -13-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             shall include Flexible Capacity associated with the Facility, and any local, zonal or otherwise locational
             attributes associated with the Facility.

             Resource Adequacy Requirements or RAR: The resource adequacy capacity requirements for load
             serving entities, including LAR and Flexible RAR, established by the Resource Adequacy Rulings.

             Resource Adequacy Rulings: The CPUC’s existing or subsequent decisions, resolutions, or rulings
             addressing resource adequacy issues, or any other resource adequacy laws, rules, or regulations enacted,
             adopted or promulgated by any other Governmental Authority with jurisdiction, as those decisions,
             resolutions, rulings, laws, rules, or regulations may be amended or modified from time-to-time.

             Round Trip Efficiency or RTE Rate: Has the meaning set forth in Exhibit M.

             Schedule: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Scheduling Coordinator or SC: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Self-Schedule: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Seller: Has the meaning in the Preamble, and any successor or permitted assignee.

             Seller Initiated Test: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(c).

             Seller’s Parent: Means NextEra Energy, Inc., NEP, NEOP, or any combination thereof.

             Settlement Interval: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             SFPUC: The San Francisco Public Utilities Commission.

             Showing Month: The calendar month of the Delivery Term that is the subject of the RA Compliance
             Showing, as set forth in the Resource Adequacy Rulings and outlined in the CAISO Tariff.

             Site: The location of the Facility as described on Exhibit B.

             Standard & Poor’s or S&P: Standard & Poor’s Financial Services, LLC (a subsidiary of S&P Global,
             limited liability company).

             State of Charge or SOC: The ratio of the (a) amount of Energy stored in the Facility and available for
             discharging relative to (b) the Storage Contract Capacity multiplied by four (4) hours, expressed as a
             percentage.

             Station Uses: The Energy that is used within the Facility to power the lights, motors, cooling equipment,
             control systems and other electrical loads that are necessary for operation of the Facility except during
             periods in which the Facility is charging or discharging pursuant to a Charging Notice or Discharging
             Notice. Buyer is not responsible for Station Uses.

             Storage Capacity Test or SCT: Any test or retest of the capacity of the Facility conducted in accordance
             with the testing procedures, requirements, and protocols set forth in Section 5.4 and Exhibit K.

             Storage Contract Capacity: The maximum dependable operating capacity of the Facility as measured in
             MW at the Delivery Point, equal to the Guaranteed Installed Capacity, as adjusted from time to time


                                                                 -14-






DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                               that are capable of being satisfied on the COD, other than testing for
                                               Ancillary Services;

                                      (E)      Seller has obtained CAISO Certification for the Facility, other than testing
                                               for Ancillary Services;

                                      (F)      Seller has delivered to Buyer a fully executed Interconnection Agreement
                                               between Seller (or its Affiliate) and the Transmission Provider for the
                                               Facility, which Interconnection Agreement shall be in full force and effect;

                                      (G)      Seller has delivered to Buyer a fully executed Participating Generator
                                               Agreement and Meter Services Agreement between Seller and the CAISO
                                               for the Facility, which Participating Generator Agreement and Meter
                                               Services Agreement shall be in full force and effect;

                                      (H)      Seller has taken all actions and executed all documents required to
                                               authorize Buyer or its designee to act as Scheduling Coordinator for the
                                               Facility and Buyer or its designee is authorized to act as SC;

                                      (I)      Seller has demonstrated satisfaction of all requirements under this
                                               Agreement that commence prior to or as of the Delivery Term, including
                                               payment of all amounts owed to Buyer under this Agreement, if any; and

                                      (J)      Seller has delivered Performance Assurance to Buyer.

                     (c)      The Parties agree that, in order for Buyer to dispatch the Facility as of the Commercial
                              Operation Date, the Parties must perform certain of their Delivery Term obligations in
                              advance of the Commercial Operation Date. The Parties shall cooperate with each other in
                              order for Buyer to be able to dispatch the Facility as of the Commercial Operation Date.

                     (d)      Seller shall complete testing for Ancillary Services within sixty (60) days after the
                              Commercial Operation Date.

             2.3     Extended Delivery Term and Purchase Option. At its sole discretion, Buyer may provide notice
                     to Seller no later than twenty-four (24) months prior to the end of the Delivery Term of its intent
                     to initiate negotiations of a potential agreement that would allow Buyer to (i) extend the Delivery
                     Term (“Extended Delivery Term”), or (ii) purchase the Facility. After Seller’s receipt of such
                     notice, Buyer and Seller shall promptly enter into good faith negotiations on the price and other
                     terms that will apply to any Extended Delivery Term or Facility purchase and sale. If the Parties
                     have not reached agreement on such price and other terms within ninety (90) days after delivery of
                     Buyer’s notice under this Section 2.3 in the case of an Extended Delivery Term, or one-hundred
                     and twenty (120) days in the case of a purchase and sale of the Facility, then neither Party shall
                     have any further obligation to negotiate for an Extended Delivery Term or Facility purchase and
                     sale. Upon termination of the negotiations under this Section 2.3, Seller may enter into negotiations
                     and definitive agreements with one or more third parties for the sale of the Product, the Facility, or
                     any component thereof with respect to the period occurring after the end of the Delivery Term.
                     Notwithstanding the foregoing, the negotiation period set forth in this Section 2.3 is non-exclusive
                     and Seller shall have the right to discuss the post-Delivery Term sale of Product or the Facility with
                     third-parties prior to, during, and after such period.




                                                                  -17-










DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              Applicable Laws after the Execution Date that are in excess of the reasonably anticipated
                              compliance costs as of the Execution Date.

                     (b)      Reimbursement. In the event that the Compliance Costs exceed the Compliance Cost Cap,
                              Buyer shall either reimburse Seller for such Compliance Costs that exceed the Compliance
                              Cost Cap, or excuse Seller from performing those obligations that cause the Compliance
                              Costs to exceed the Compliance Cost Cap. If Buyer agrees to reimburse Seller, Seller shall
                              perform the additional compliance actions and shall include the Compliance Costs in the
                              monthly invoice.

                     (c)      Notice. Seller shall notify Buyer within sixty (60) calendar days after the change in
                              Applicable Law if it anticipates that its Compliance Costs will exceed the Compliance Cost
                              Cap and provide an estimate of the Compliance Costs. Buyer shall notify Seller within
                              ninety (90) calendar days of receipt of the notice whether Buyer (i) agrees to reimburse
                              Seller for the additional costs, or (ii) waives Seller’s performance of such obligations. If
                              Buyer waives such performance obligations, then Seller shall be excused from the
                              obligations in this Agreement that cannot be performed without exceeding the Compliance
                              Cost Cap and any excess costs reimbursed by Buyer, and Buyer shall pay Seller for Product
                              without any reduction imposed due to non-compliance with such excused obligations.

                     (d)      Excused Reduction in Capacity Attributes. If a change in Applicable Laws occurs after the
                              Effective Date that reduces the amount of Qualifying Capacity, Net Qualifying Capacity,
                              Effective Flexible Capacity, or other measure of Capacity Attributes that is available from
                              the Facility for delivery to Buyer hereunder, and provided that either (i) Seller has incurred
                              any applicable Compliance Costs up to the Compliance Cost Cap and notified Buyer of
                              any excess in accordance with this Section 3.8 and Buyer has declined to pay the excess,
                              or (ii) Seller is unable to increase the quantity of Qualifying Capacity, Net Qualifying
                              Capacity, Effective Flexible Capacity, and other Capacity Attributes available from the
                              Facility by incurring Compliance Costs up to or in excess of the Compliance Cost Cap,
                              then Seller’s obligation to deliver Net Qualifying Capacity, Effective Flexible Capacity,
                              and other Capacity Attributes, as applicable, hereunder shall be automatically reduced, and
                              such reduction (“Reduced RA Quantity”) shall be applied in the definition of Guaranteed
                              RA Amount to reduce the Guaranteed RA Amount so as not to penalize or require Seller
                              to pay any RA Shortfall Damages with respect to the Qualifying Capacity, Net Qualifying
                              Capacity, Effective Flexible Capacity, and/or other Capacity Attributes that cannot be
                              supplied due to such change in Applicable Laws.

                                    ARTICLE 4: BILLING, PAYMENT, AND CERTIFICATION

             4.1     Billing and Payment.

                     (a)      Monthly Invoices. Seller shall provide to Buyer no sooner than the tenth (10th) calendar
                              day of each month an invoice for the Product for the prior month, and for other amounts
                              due to or from Seller hereunder. Each invoice shall be in a format reasonably specified by
                              Buyer and shall include data as is reasonably necessary to verify each element of the
                              calculation of the Monthly Payment and other charges or credits as set forth in this
                              Agreement.

                              (i)      The “Monthly Payment” for each month will be an amount equal to the summation
                                       of the following:



                                                                  -22-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                      (A)      the product of: the Contract Price; multiplied by 1,000; multiplied by the
                                               Storage Contract Capacity for that month; and the result of the foregoing
                                               calculation shall be offset and reduced by the amount of any Guaranteed
                                               Storage Availability Liquidated Damages for such month, and by the
                                               Annual Round Trip Efficiency Adjustment when applicable; plus

                                      (B)      credits for any amounts owed from Seller to Buyer under sections 3.3(d)
                                               and 5.6(c); plus

                                      (C)      any other amounts netted against the monthly invoice under Section 4.1(c).

                              (ii)    The Invoice shall include:

                                      (A)      CAISO metering and transaction data sufficient to document and verify
                                               the amounts of Charging Energy and Discharging Energy as measured by
                                               the Facility Meter;

                                      (B)      the amount of Replacement RA delivered to Buyer (if any);

                                      (C)      calculations of any Guaranteed Storage Availability Liquidated Damages,
                                               Annual Round Trip Efficiency Adjustment, and RA Deficiency Amounts
                                               for the month; and

                                      (D)      the calculation of any other amounts due to or from Seller hereunder.

                              (iii)   Buyer shall, and shall cause its Scheduling Coordinator to, provide Seller with all
                                      reasonable access (including, in real time, to the maximum extent reasonably
                                      possible) to any records, including invoices or settlement data from the CAISO,
                                      forecast data and other information, all as may be necessary from time to time for
                                      Seller to prepare and verify the accuracy of all invoices.

                              (iv)    The Parties acknowledge and agree that the calculation of the monthly invoice may
                                      result in payments owed from Seller to Buyer. In the event of a monthly payment
                                      owed by Seller to Buyer, the payment terms set forth in Section 4.1(b) shall apply.

                     (b)      Payment. Unless otherwise specified under this Agreement, all payments shall be due and
                              payable on or before the thirtieth (30th) calendar day after receipt of the invoice or, if such
                              day is not a Business Day, then on the next Business Day. Any amount not paid when due
                              shall be considered late and the Party owing the payment shall pay a Late Payment Fee
                              equal to a daily rate of five dollars and fifty cents ($5.50) per one hundred thousand dollars
                              ($100,000) on the unpaid balance for a maximum period of ninety (90) days after the due
                              date of the payment (“Late Payment Fee”) shall be added to the outstanding amount.

                     (c)      Netting. Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, the Parties shall discharge mutual
                              debts and payment obligations due and owing to each other on the same date through
                              netting, in which case all amounts owed by each Party to the other Party for the purchase
                              and sale of Product during the monthly billing period under this Agreement or otherwise
                              arising out of this Agreement, including any damages set forth in this Agreement, CAISO
                              Charges Invoices, Late Payment Fees, and payments or credits, shall be netted so that only
                              the excess amount remaining due shall be paid by the Party who owes it.



                                                                   -23-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (d)      City Vendor Requirements. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Buyer
                              shall not be deemed to be in default of this Agreement and no Late Payment Fee shall be
                              assessed if an invoice under this Agreement cannot be processed by Buyer due to Seller’s
                              failure to comply with all applicable City requirements for City contractors, including but
                              not limited to certification of vendors under Chapter 12 of the San Francisco
                              Administrative Code, payment of business license fees or taxes, insurance requirements,
                              registration in the City’s vendor payment processing system, or any other current or future
                              City requirement for vendor payment processing. Seller understands and acknowledges
                              that vendor certifications may include annual renewals and additional certification
                              requirements may apply to assignees or changes in ownership or control of Seller.

                     (e)      Disputes and Adjustments of Invoices. A Party may, in good faith, dispute the correctness
                              of any invoice or any adjustment to an invoice, rendered under this Agreement or adjust
                              any invoice for any arithmetic, metering, or computational error within twelve (12) months
                              of the date the invoice, or adjustment to an invoice, was rendered. In the event an invoice
                              or portion thereof, or any other claim or adjustment arising hereunder, is disputed, payment
                              of the undisputed portion of the invoice shall be required to be made when due, with notice
                              of the objection given to the other Party. Any invoice dispute or invoice adjustment shall
                              be in writing and shall state the basis for the dispute or adjustment. Payment of the disputed
                              amount shall not be required until the dispute is resolved. Upon resolution of the dispute,
                              any required payment shall be made within five (5) Business Days of such resolution along
                              with the Late Payment Fee from and including the due date to but excluding the date paid.
                              Inadvertent overpayments shall be returned upon request or deducted by the Buyer from
                              subsequent payments. Any dispute with respect to an invoice is waived unless the other
                              Party is notified in accordance with this Section 4.1(d) within twelve (12) months after the
                              invoice is rendered or any specific adjustment to the invoice is made. If an invoice is not
                              rendered within twelve (12) months after the close of the month during which delivery of
                              Product occurred, the right to payment for such delivery is waived.

                     (f)      CAISO Adjustments. If the CAISO makes any adjustment to any CAISO meter data or
                              applicable market prices for a given time period, the Parties shall share information
                              necessary to revise the monthly invoices pursuant to Section 4.1 and Seller agrees that it
                              shall submit revised monthly invoices covering the entire applicable time period in order
                              to conform fully such adjustments to the meter data. Seller shall submit any such revised
                              invoice no later than thirty (30) days from the date on which the Seller receives such
                              binding adjustment to the meter data.

             4.2     Designated Fund/Limited Obligations.

                     (a)      Auto-Appropriating Designated Fund. Buyer’s payment obligations under this Agreement
                              shall be paid from a SFPUC designated fund that will automatically appropriate
                              CleanPowerSF revenues on an annual basis without further Buyer action and which shall
                              be used solely for CleanPowerSF costs and expenses, including the obligations under this
                              Agreement. Buyer agrees to establish CleanPowerSF rates and charges that are sufficient
                              to maintain revenues necessary to pay its obligations under this Agreement and all of
                              Buyer’s payment obligations under its other contracts for the purchase of energy for
                              CleanPowerSF. Buyer shall provide Seller with reasonable access to account balance
                              information with respect to the SFPUC designated fund upon request during the Delivery
                              Term.




                                                                  -24-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (b)      Limited Obligations. Buyer’s payment obligations are special limited obligations of the
                              Buyer payable solely from the revenues of CleanPowerSF. Buyer’s payment obligations
                              under this Agreement are not a charge upon the revenues or general fund of the SFPUC or
                              the City and County of San Francisco or upon any non-CleanPowerSF moneys or other
                              property of the SFPUC or the City.

             4.3     Guaranteed Maximum Costs.

                     (a)      Controller Certification. The Buyer’s obligations hereunder shall not at any time exceed
                              the amount certified by the Controller for the purpose and period stated in such
                              certification. Except as may be provided by laws governing emergency procedures,
                              officers and employees of Buyer are not authorized to request, and Buyer is not required
                              to reimburse Seller for, commodities or services beyond the agreed upon Agreement scope
                              unless the changed scope is authorized by amendment and approved as required by law.
                              Officers and employees of Buyer are not authorized to offer or promise, nor is Buyer
                              required to honor, any offered or promised additional funding in excess of the maximum
                              amount of funding for which the contract is certified without certification of the additional
                              amount by the Controller. The Controller is not authorized to make payments on any
                              contract for which funds have not been certified as available in the budget or by
                              supplemental appropriation.

                     (b)      Biennial Budget Process. For each City biennial budget cycle during the term of this
                              Agreement, Buyer agrees to take all necessary action to include the Buyer’s payment
                              obligations under this Agreement in its budget submitted to the Board of Supervisors for
                              that budget cycle.

                     ARTICLE 5: FACILITY DEVELOPMENT, OPERATION, AND MAINTENANCE

             5.1     General Obligations. Seller covenants that at its sole cost and expense, unless otherwise
                     specifically stated in this Agreement, it shall:

                     (a)      Records. Keep complete and accurate design, operating, and other records and all other
                              data for the purposes of proper administration of this Agreement, including such records
                              as may be required by any Governmental Authority or Prudent Operating Practice;

                     (b)      Further Development Information. Provide to Buyer such other information regarding the
                              permitting, engineering, testing, construction or operations of the Facility as Buyer may
                              from time to time reasonably request, subject to licensing or other restrictions of Seller or
                              a third party with respect to confidentiality, disclosure or use; provided, nothing herein
                              shall limit Buyer’s right to obtain such information upon agreeing to confidentiality or
                              signing a confidentiality agreement with regard to such information;

                     (c)      Insurance. Obtain and maintain the policies of insurance in the amounts and with the
                              coverages as set forth on Exhibit D;

                     (d)      Vendor Certification. Obtain, renew, and maintain, all City required vendor certifications
                              and requirements during the Term of this Agreement;

                     (e)      Construction. Design, develop, finance, and construct the Facility;




                                                                  -25-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (f)      Prevailing Wages. Pay any person performing labor in the construction of the Facility not
                              less than the prevailing wage rate for the county in which the Facility will be located, as
                              determined by the California Department of Industrial Relations. Seller shall require in
                              any contract related to the construction of the Facility the payment of the prevailing wage
                              rate for the work to be performed. Seller shall provide to Buyer upon request, certified
                              payroll reports with respect to all persons performing labor in the construction of the
                              Facility;

                     (g)      Forced Labor. Not knowingly utilize equipment or resources for the construction, operation
                              or maintenance of the Facility that rely on work or services exacted from any person under
                              the threat of a penalty and for which the person has not offered himself or herself
                              voluntarily (“Forced Labor”); provided that, consistent with the business advisory jointly
                              issued by the U.S. Departments of State, Treasury, Commerce and Homeland Security on
                              July 1, 2020, equipment or resources sourced from the Xinjiang region of China are
                              presumed to involve Forced Labor;

                     (h)      Interconnection and Transmission. Take all necessary actions, including arranging and
                              paying for any and all necessary Electric System Upgrades, obtaining all required
                              regulatory approvals, and executing and maintaining in full force and effect all necessary
                              agreements to allow Seller to interconnect the Facility to the CAISO grid, maintain
                              interconnection capacity and FCDS for the Facility that is no less than the Storage Contract
                              Capacity throughout the Delivery Term, and deliver the Product to the Delivery Point in
                              accordance with this Agreement. Seller shall comply with all applicable requirements,
                              rules, contractual obligations, and Prudent Operating Practice to maintain any
                              Interconnection Facilities and to cause delivery of the Product to Buyer;

                     (i)      Environmental Costs. Be solely responsible for all Environmental Costs; and

                     (j)      Compliance with Laws. Seek, obtain, maintain, and comply with all Applicable Laws,
                              Permits, certificates, agreements, or other authorizations or approvals, which are required
                              for the ownership, construction, operation, and maintenance of the Facility and the delivery
                              and sale of the Product pursuant to this Agreement.

             5.2     Facility Construction and Milestones.

                     (a)      Time is of the Essence. The Parties agree that time is of the essence in the performance of
                              this Agreement. Seller shall diligently pursue to completion each of the following
                              Milestones:

                              (i)     Obtain Final and Unappealable Permits Required for Start of Construction:
                                      August 1, 2024

                              (ii)    Construction Start: December 1, 2024

                              (iii)   Mechanical Completion: May 1, 2025;

                              (iv)    Commercial Operation: June 1, 2025.

                     (b)      Progress Report. Seller shall provide to Buyer a Progress Report concerning the progress
                              towards construction and completion of the each of the Milestones (including whether
                              Seller has met or is on target to meet each of the Milestones), which shall be substantially


                                                                 -26-












DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (g)      Testing Costs and Revenues.

                              (i)     Buyer shall be responsible for all Charging Energy and shall be entitled to all
                                      CAISO revenues associated with a Buyer Dispatched Test.

                              (ii)    Seller shall be responsible for the cost of all Charging Energy for, and shall be
                                      entitled to all CAISO revenues associated with, a Seller Initiated Test or a Facility
                                      Rebalancing Dispatch. In the month following Buyer’s receipt of such CAISO
                                      revenues, costs, and charges, Buyer shall credit or invoice Seller for all applicable
                                      CAISO revenues, costs, and charges received by Buyer and associated with the
                                      Seller Initiated Test or Facility Rebalancing Dispatch in the CAISO Charges
                                      Invoice.

                              (iii)   Except as set forth in Section 5.4(b), all other costs of any testing of the Facility
                                      shall be borne by Seller.

             5.5     Operation and Maintenance.

                     (a)      Operation and Maintenance. Seller shall be solely responsible for the ownership,
                              operation, maintenance, and repair of the Facility in accordance with this Agreement, all
                              Applicable Laws, the requirements of the CAISO, NERC and WECC, all applicable
                              contractual obligations and Permits, and in accordance with Prudent Operating Practice,
                              and shall be solely responsible for all associated costs and expenses.

                              (i)     In the event Seller requires any data or information from Buyer in order to comply
                                      with any Applicable Law, including the requirements of CAISO, NERC and
                                      WECC, relating to the Facility, then Seller shall request in writing such data from
                                      Buyer no less than forty-five (45) days prior to Seller’s requested date of Buyer’s
                                      response; provided that if Seller has less than forty-five (45) calendar days prior
                                      notice of the need for such data, Seller shall request in writing such data from
                                      Buyer as soon as reasonably practicable. Buyer shall make a good faith effort to
                                      provide such data and/or information within the timeframe specified in writing by
                                      Seller or as soon thereafter as reasonably practicable.

                              (ii)    Upon Buyer’s request, Seller shall submit the Facility for additional CAISO
                                      Certification so that the Facility may provide Ancillary Services that the Facility
                                      is, at the relevant time, capable of providing. At Buyer’s request, the Parties shall
                                      cooperate in good faith to agree on necessary alterations to the Facility equipment
                                      or Facility operations in order to allow the Facility to provide additional Ancillary
                                      Services.

                              (iii)   Seller shall maintain a daily operations log for the Facility which shall include but
                                      not be limited to information on Energy charging and discharging, Station Use,
                                      availability, outages, changes in operating status, inspections, and any other
                                      significant events related to the operation of the Facility. Information maintained
                                      pursuant to this Section 5.5(a)(iii) shall be provided to Buyer within fifteen (15)
                                      days of Buyer’s request.

                              (iv)    Seller shall maintain accurate records of all Storage Capacity Tests.




                                                                 -32-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              (v)     Seller shall maintain and make available to Buyer records, including logbooks,
                                      demonstrating that the Facility is operated in accordance with Prudent Operating
                                      Practices. Seller shall comply with all reporting requirements and permit on-site
                                      audits, investigations, tests and inspections permitted or required under any
                                      Prudent Operating Practice.

                     (b)      Maintenance of Health and Safety. Seller shall take reasonable safety precautions with
                              respect to the operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of the Facility, including
                              maintenance of a safety manual at the Facility addressing all hazard and safety
                              requirements and operating procedures. If Seller becomes aware of any circumstances
                              relating to the Facility that create an imminent risk of damage or injury to any Person or
                              any Person’s property, Seller shall take prompt, reasonable action to prevent such damage
                              or injury and shall give Buyer’s emergency contact identified in the Cover Sheet notice of
                              such condition. Such action may include disconnecting and removing all or a portion of
                              the Facility, or suspending the supply of Discharging Energy to the Delivery Point.

                     (c)      Start-ups and Shut-downs. Seller shall coordinate all Facility start-ups and shut-downs, in
                              whole or in part, with Buyer in accordance with CAISO scheduling protocols and the
                              reasonable protocols established by Buyer that are not inconsistent with the CAISO Tariff
                              and CAISO procedures.

                     (d)      Metering.

                              (i)     All Charging Energy and Discharging Energy must be delivered through the
                                      Facility Meter, which shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with applicable
                                      CAISO meter requirements and Prudent Operating Practices, including to account
                                      for Electrical Losses. Each meter shall be kept under seal, such seals to be broken
                                      only when the Facility Meter is to be tested, adjusted, modified or relocated. In the
                                      event Seller breaks a seal, Seller shall notify Buyer as soon as practicable.

                              (ii)    The meter data will account for transformer losses and will be programmed to
                                      reflect Electrical Losses to the Delivery Point, consistent with CAISO
                                      requirements. Seller shall bear all costs relating to all metering equipment installed
                                      to accommodate the Facility. Seller shall grant Buyer (and Buyer’s Scheduling
                                      Coordinator) read-only rights to retrieve all data, including the meter reads, via
                                      website and direct download and directly from the CAISO meter(s) at the Facility
                                      through both (A) physical access and (B) remote electronic read-only access.
                                      Seller shall maintain an updated record of programmed meter parameters (such as
                                      channel configuration and other relevant settings) that is accessible and reasonably
                                      acceptable to Buyer. In addition, Seller shall provide all meter data to Buyer in a
                                      form reasonably acceptable to Buyer, and consents to Buyer obtaining from
                                      CAISO the CAISO meter data directly relating to the Facility and all inspection,
                                      testing and calibration data and reports.

                              (iii)   If Seller has reason to believe there may be a Facility Meter malfunction, or upon
                                      Buyer’s reasonable request, Seller shall test the Facility Meter at its sole cost and
                                      expense. The tests shall be conducted by independent third parties qualified to
                                      conduct such tests. Buyer shall be notified seven (7) days in advance of such tests
                                      and have a right to be present during such tests. If a Facility Meter is inaccurate,
                                      Seller shall promptly repair or replace the meter and submit corrected meter data
                                      in compliance with CAISO requirements. Seller shall be responsible for and shall

                                                                  -33-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                      reimburse Buyer for all CAISO costs, penalties, and charges related to the
                                      inaccuracy of the Facility Meter.

                              (iv)    Upon Buyer’s request, Seller shall take all commercially reasonable actions to
                                      become, as specified by Buyer, either a CAISO Metered Entity or a Scheduling
                                      Coordinator Metered Entity (as those terms are defined in the CAISO Tariff).

                     (e)      Facility Rebalancing Dispatch. Seller shall have the right to charge and discharge the
                              Facility to rebalance the levels of stored energy in the Facility as Seller deems necessary
                              following outages, derates, or other events affecting the Facility (“Facility Rebalancing
                              Dispatch”); provided that: (i) Seller shall provide prior written notice to Buyer for any
                              Facility Rebalancing Dispatch; (ii) Seller shall restore the Facility at the end of any Facility
                              Rebalancing Dispatch to the level of stored energy (but rebalanced among all inverters) as
                              existed prior to the Facility Rebalancing Dispatch; (iii) Seller shall schedule all Facility
                              Rebalancing Dispatch during off-peak hours and in coordination with Buyer’s Scheduling
                              Coordinator to minimize Buyer’s potential loss of revenue; (iv) Seller shall reimburse
                              Buyer for all net CAISO costs incurred by Buyer as a result of the Facility Rebalancing
                              Dispatch; and (v) any hours or partial hours in which Seller conducts a Facility
                              Rebalancing Dispatch shall count toward the total number of hours of “scheduled
                              maintenance (including Planned Outages)” for purposes of calculating the Monthly Storage
                              Availability in Exhibit L. For the avoidance of doubt, should the total number of hours of
                              Facility Rebalancing Dispatches and scheduled maintenance (including Planned Outages),
                              in the aggregate, exceed a maximum of one hundred eighty (180) hours in any Contract
                              Year, the hours of Facility Rebalancing Dispatches and scheduled maintenance (including
                              Planned Outages) in excess of that limit in a Contract Year shall be treated as
                              UNAVAILHRSm for purposes of calculating the Monthly Storage Availability in
                              Exhibit L.

                     (f)      Shared Facilities. The Parties acknowledged and agree that the Facility may share the
                              Interconnection Facilities and other assets, including the Interconnection Agreement and
                              transmission service agreements. Seller agrees that such joint ownership or arrangements
                              shall permit Seller to perform or satisfy, and shall not limit, Seller’s obligations under this
                              Agreement, including Buyer’s ability to discharge the Facility up to the interconnection
                              capacity limit for the Facility and to charge the Facility up to the Storage Contract Capacity,
                              and providing for separate metering of the Facility. At the request of Buyer, the Facility
                              shall have an unique Scheduling Coordinator ID as that term is defined in the CAISO
                              Tariff.

                     (g)      Refurbishment of the Facility. During the Term, Seller may not refurbish the Facility, alter
                              components of the Facility, or replace major components of the Facility where such action
                              results in a total increased capacity higher than the originally defined Guaranteed Installed
                              Capacity (before adjustment pursuant to Section 5.3(j)), without the prior written consent
                              of Buyer. Buyer shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to accept or decline to permit
                              any such refurbishment or alteration that may increase capacity of the Facility above such
                              Guaranteed Installed Capacity. Nothing in this Section 5.5(g) is intended to limit Seller’s
                              ability to refurbish, repair, maintain, or replace any portion of the Facility where such
                              actions will not increase the Facility’s total capacity above such Guaranteed Installed
                              Capacity.




                                                                   -34-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             5.6     Scheduling.

                     (a)      Scheduling Coordinator.

                              (i)     Upon Initial Synchronization, Buyer shall be the Scheduling Coordinator or
                                      designate a qualified third party to provide Scheduling Coordinator services with
                                      the CAISO for the Facility for the delivery and the receipt of Charging Energy,
                                      Discharging Energy, and the Product at the Delivery Point. At least thirty (30) days
                                      prior to Initial Synchronization, (A) Seller shall take all actions and execute and
                                      deliver to Buyer and the CAISO all documents necessary to authorize or designate
                                      Buyer (or Buyer’s designee) as the Scheduling Coordinator for the Facility
                                      effective as of Initial Synchronization, and (B) Buyer shall, and shall cause its
                                      designee to, take all actions and execute and deliver to Seller and the CAISO all
                                      documents necessary to authorize or designate Buyer or its designee as the
                                      Scheduling Coordinator for the Facility effective as of the Initial Synchronization.
                                      On and after Initial Synchronization, Seller shall not authorize or designate any
                                      other party to act as the Facility’s Scheduling Coordinator, nor shall Seller perform
                                      for its own benefit the duties of Scheduling Coordinator, and Seller shall not
                                      revoke Buyer’s authorization to act as the Facility’s Scheduling Coordinator unless
                                      agreed to or directed by Buyer. Buyer or Buyer’s designee shall submit Schedules
                                      to the CAISO in accordance with this Agreement and the CAISO Tariff and
                                      protocols.

                              (ii)    At any time during the Term of this Agreement, Buyer may elect to require Seller
                                      or Seller’s designee to become the Scheduling Coordinator for the Facility. Buyer
                                      shall provide one hundred twenty (120) days’ prior notice to Seller and the Parties
                                      shall promptly enter into good faith negotiations on necessary amendments to this
                                      Agreement to reflect the transfer of Scheduling Coordinator responsibilities to
                                      Seller. The negotiations shall be limited to necessary amendments that are solely
                                      related to the Scheduling Coordinator services for the Facility.

                              (iii)   Buyer shall provide Seller with access to a web-based system through which Seller
                                      shall submit to Buyer and the CAISO all notices and updates required under the
                                      CAISO Tariff regarding the Facility’s status, including, but not limited to, all
                                      outage requests, forced outages, forced outage reports, clearance requests, or must
                                      offer waiver forms. Seller shall cooperate with Buyer to provide such notices and
                                      updates. If the web-based system is not available, Seller shall promptly submit
                                      such information to Buyer and the CAISO both telephonically and by electronic
                                      mail to the personnel designated to receive such information.

                              (iv)    At least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the Delivery Term or the date
                                      that Seller assumes SC services under Section 5.6(a)(ii), or as soon as reasonably
                                      practicable upon an early termination of this Agreement, the Parties will take all
                                      actions necessary to terminate the designation of Buyer as Scheduling Coordinator
                                      for the Facility as of 11:59 p.m. on the designated expiration, termination, or
                                      transfer date.

                              (v)     Prior to the COD, the Parties shall cooperate to develop protocols as necessary to
                                      implement scheduling and settlements procedures consistent with this Agreement
                                      and the CAISO Tariff.



                                                                 -35-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (b)      CAISO Costs and Revenues.

                              (i)     Except as otherwise set forth in this Section 5.6(b), Buyer (as Scheduling
                                      Coordinator for the Facility) shall be responsible for CAISO costs and shall be
                                      entitled to all CAISO revenues or other credits related to the Product Scheduled or
                                      delivered from the Delivery Point.

                              (ii)    Seller shall be responsible for and reimburse Buyer for all CAISO costs, charges,
                                      and penalties resulting from (A) the unavailability of the Facility, (B) Seller’s
                                      default, breach, or other failure to perform as required by this Agreement, (C) any
                                      failure by Seller to abide by the CAISO Tariff, any requirements imposed on it as
                                      Facility owner, or the outage notification requirements set forth in this Agreement,
                                      (D) any failure by Seller to comply with a Curtailment Order, CAISO Dispatch, or
                                      Dispatch Instruction, (E) Facility Meter inaccuracies, (F) penalties related to non-
                                      performance with respect to Ancillary Services and Residual Unit Commitment
                                      (as defined in the CAISO Tariff) awards due to conditions within Seller’s control,
                                      and (G) costs associated with deviations from the amounts included in a
                                      Discharging Notice and the actual RTM Discharging Energy; provided, however,
                                      that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Seller shall not be responsible
                                      for and shall not be required to reimburse Buyer for any CAISO costs, charges,
                                      penalties, or other amounts that are incurred due to Buyer’s or its Scheduling
                                      Coordinator’s failure to perform their duties as Scheduling Coordinator for the
                                      Facility, failure to comply with the CAISO Tariff or this Agreement, or failure to
                                      submit timely notices or instructions to Seller; provided, further that Buyer shall
                                      use reasonable efforts to mitigate any CAISO costs, charges, penalties, or other
                                      amounts. In addition, if during the Delivery Term, the CAISO implements or has
                                      implemented any sanction or penalty related to scheduling, outage reporting, or
                                      generator operation, and any such sanctions or penalties are imposed upon the
                                      Facility or to Buyer as Scheduling Coordinator due to failure by Seller to abide by
                                      the CAISO Tariff or the outage notification requirements set forth in this
                                      Agreement, the cost of the sanctions or penalties shall be Seller’s responsibility.

                              (iii)   Seller shall be entitled to any Availability Incentive Payments (as defined in the
                                      CAISO Tariff) and shall be responsible for any Non-Availability Charges (as
                                      defined in the CAISO Tariff).

                              (iv)    Each Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate with the other
                                      Party to allow that Party to comply with any obligations, and minimize any
                                      potential liability, it may have under the CAISO Tariff in relation to Product under
                                      this Agreement.

                     (c)      CAISO Settlements. Buyer (as the Facility’s SC) shall be responsible for all settlement
                              functions with the CAISO related to the Facility. Buyer shall render a separate invoice to
                              Seller for any CAISO payments, charges or penalties (“CAISO Charges Invoice”) for
                              which Seller is responsible under this Agreement. CAISO Charges Invoices shall be
                              rendered after settlement information becomes available from the CAISO that identifies
                              any CAISO charges. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller acknowledges that the CAISO
                              will issue additional invoices reflecting CAISO adjustments to such CAISO charges. Buyer
                              shall review, validate, and if requested by Seller under paragraph (e) below, dispute any
                              charges that are the responsibility of Seller in a timely manner and consistent with Buyer’s
                              existing settlement processes for charges that are Buyer’s responsibilities. Subject to

                                                                 -36-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              Seller’s right to dispute and to have Buyer pursue the dispute of any such invoices, Seller
                              shall pay the amount of CAISO Charges Invoices within ten (10) Business Days of Seller’s
                              receipt of the CAISO Charges Invoice. If Seller fails to pay such CAISO Charges Invoice
                              within that period, Buyer may net or offset any amounts owing to it for such CAISO
                              Charges Invoices against any future amounts it may owe to Seller under this Agreement.
                              The obligations under this Section with respect to payment of CAISO Charges Invoices
                              shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

                     (d)      CAISO Charges Disputes. Seller may require Buyer (as the Facility’s SC) to dispute
                              CAISO settlements related to any costs or revenues for which Seller is responsible under
                              this Agreement. Seller agrees to pay Buyer’s costs and expenses (including reasonable
                              attorneys’ fees) associated with CAISO charges that Seller has directed Buyer to dispute.

                     (e)      Master File. Seller shall provide the data to the CAISO (and to Buyer) that is required for
                              the CAISO’s Master File (or successor data systems) for the Facility consistent with this
                              Agreement. Neither Party shall change such data without the other Party’s prior written
                              consent.

                     (f)      Seller Equipment for Operating Instruction Communications. Seller shall acquire, install,
                              and maintain such facilities, communications links and other equipment, and implement
                              such protocols and practices, as necessary to respond to and follow operating instructions
                              from the CAISO and Buyer’s SC.

             5.7     Energy Management.

                     (a)      Charging Generally. Upon receipt of a Charging Notice, Seller shall take any and all action
                              necessary to deliver the Charging Energy to the Facility in order to deliver the Product in
                              accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Except as otherwise expressly set forth in
                              this Agreement, Buyer shall be responsible for paying all CAISO costs and charges
                              associated with Charging Energy.

                     (b)      Charging and Discharging Notices. Buyer shall have the right to charge and discharge the
                              Facility seven (7) days per week and twenty-four (24) hours per day (including holidays),
                              by issuing Charging Notices and Discharging Notices to Seller, subject to the requirements
                              and limitations set forth in this Agreement, including the Operating Parameters and Seller’s
                              rights to conduct Seller Initiated Tests and Facility Rebalancing Dispatches. Each Charging
                              Notice or Discharging Notice issued in accordance with this Agreement will be effective
                              unless and until Buyer’s SC or CAISO modifies such Charging Notice or Discharging
                              Notice by providing Seller with an updated Charging Notice or Discharging Notice, as the
                              case may be.

                     (c)      No Unauthorized Charging. Seller shall not charge the Facility during the Delivery Term
                              other than pursuant to a valid Charging Notice or in connection with a Seller Initiated Test
                              or Facility Rebalancing Dispatch. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller may adjust a
                              Charging Notice to the extent necessary to comply with the Operating Parameters, in
                              connection with a Storage Capacity Test or Facility Rebalancing Dispatch, or pursuant to
                              a notice from the CAISO, Transmission Provider, or any other applicable Governmental
                              Authority. Seller shall comply with all Charging Notices, subject to the requirements and
                              limitations set forth in this Agreement. If, during the Delivery Term, Seller charges the
                              Facility (i) to a Stored Energy Level greater than the Stored Energy Level provided for in
                              a Charging Notice, or (ii) in violation of the first sentence of this Section 5.7(c), then (x)

                                                                  -37-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              Seller shall be responsible for all excess Energy costs associated with such charging of the
                              Facility above such Stored Energy Level or caused by such violation, (y) Buyer shall not
                              be required to pay for such Energy that is Seller’s responsibility as specified in the
                              preceding clause (x), and (z) Buyer shall be entitled to discharge such Energy and entitled
                              to all of the benefits (including Product) associated with such discharge.

                     (d)      No Unauthorized Discharging. Seller shall not discharge the Facility during the Delivery
                              Term other than pursuant to a valid Discharging Notice or in connection with a Seller
                              Initiated Test or Facility Rebalancing Dispatch. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller may
                              adjust a Discharging Notice to the extent necessary to comply with the Operating
                              Parameters, in connection with a Storage Capacity Test or Facility Rebalancing Dispatch,
                              or pursuant to a notice from the CAISO, Transmission Provider, or any other Governmental
                              Authority.

                     (e)      Unauthorized Charges and Discharges. Any charges, discharges or use of the Facility that
                              is not in accordance with this Agreement shall be a breach by Seller and Seller shall hold
                              Buyer harmless from, and indemnify Buyer against, all actual costs or losses associated
                              with, and shall be responsible to Buyer for any damages arising from, such unauthorized
                              use. If Seller fails to implement procedures reasonably acceptable to Buyer to prevent any
                              further occurrences of the same, then the failure to implement such procedures shall be an
                              Event of Default under Article 8.

                     (f)      CAISO Dispatches. During the Delivery Term, CAISO Dispatches shall have priority over
                              any Charging Notice or Discharging Notice issued by Buyer or Buyer’s SC, and Seller
                              shall comply with any CAISO Dispatch. If the Facility deviates from a CAISO Dispatch,
                              Seller shall be responsible for all CAISO charges and penalties resulting from such
                              deviation (in addition to any Buyer remedy related to overcharging of the Facility as set
                              forth in Section 5.7(c)).

                     (g)      Pre-Commercial Operation Date Period. Prior to the Commercial Operation Date, Buyer
                              shall have no right to charge or discharge the Facility and Seller shall only charge and
                              discharge the Facility in connection with installation, commissioning and testing of the
                              Facility.

                     (h)      Curtailments. Seller shall reduce Discharging Energy as directed by the Reliability
                              Coordinator, CAISO, Transmission Provider, or any successor thereto pursuant to a
                              Curtailment Order. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, during
                              any Settlement Interval, Curtailment Orders applicable to such Settlement Interval shall
                              have priority over any Dispatch Notices applicable to such Settlement Interval, and Seller
                              shall not be in violation of this Section 5.7 or any Dispatch Notice, and shall not be required
                              to pay amounts owed hereunder for deviations from Dispatch Notices, if and to the extent
                              the deviation is caused by Seller’s compliance with any Curtailment Order or other
                              instruction or direction from a Governmental Authority or the Transmission Provider.
                              Buyer shall have the right, but not the obligation, to provide Seller with updated Dispatch
                              Notices during any Curtailment Order consistent with the Operating Parameters.

             5.8     Capacity Availability Notice.

                     (a)      Monthly Forecast. No less than thirty (30) days before the beginning of Commercial
                              Operation, and thereafter ten (10) Business Days before the beginning of each month
                              during the Delivery Term, Seller shall provide to Buyer and Buyer’s SC a non-binding

                                                                  -38-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              forecast of the hourly expected Available Capacity, for each day of the following month
                              (“Monthly Forecast”).

                     (b)      Availability Notice. During the Delivery Term, no later than two (2) Business Days before
                              each schedule day for the Day-Ahead Market in accordance with WECC scheduling
                              practices, Seller shall provide Buyer and Buyer’s SC an hourly schedule of the Available
                              Capacity that the Facility is expected to have for each hour of the day (“Availability
                              Notice”). Seller shall provide Availability Notices (including updated Availability Notices)
                              in a form as reasonably requested by Buyer, by electronic mail to Buyer and Buyer’s SC.

                     (c)      Updates. Seller shall notify Buyer and the SC (if applicable) immediately with an updated
                              Monthly Forecast and Availability Notice, as applicable, if the Available Capacity of the
                              Facility changes or is expected to change after Buyer’s receipt of a Monthly Forecast or
                              Availability Notice. Seller shall accommodate Buyer’s reasonable requests for changes in
                              the time of delivery of Availability Notices.

             5.9     Outages.

                     (a)      Planned Outages.

                              (i)     No later than January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 of each Contract Year,
                                      and at least sixty (60) days prior to the Guaranteed Commercial Operation Date,
                                      Seller shall submit to Buyer the schedule of proposed Planned Outages (“Outage
                                      Schedule”) for the following twelve (12) month period in a form reasonably
                                      specified by Buyer. Within twenty (20) Business Days after its receipt of an Outage
                                      Schedule, Buyer shall give notice to Seller of any request for changes to the Outage
                                      Schedule, and Seller shall, consistent with Prudent Operating Practices,
                                      accommodate Buyer’s requests regarding the timing of any Planned Outage. Seller
                                      shall deliver to Buyer the final Outage Schedule no later than five (5) days after
                                      receiving Buyer’s comments.

                              (ii)    Seller shall not schedule Planned Outages during the period of reliability
                                      accounting, initially the period between June 1st and October 31 of each year;
                                      however, such period shall be subject to changes at Buyer’s discretion in order to
                                      conform to the CAISO’s availability assessment procedures. In the event that
                                      Seller has a previously Planned Outage that becomes coincident with a System
                                      Emergency, Seller shall make all reasonable efforts to reschedule such Planned
                                      Outage.

                              (iii)   If replacement capacity is required by the CAISO for the period of any Planned
                                      Outage, Seller shall provide the required replacement capacity in the amount and
                                      for the duration specified by the CAISO pursuant to the CAISO Tariff.

                              (iv)    If reasonably required in accordance with Prudent Operating Practices, Seller shall
                                      have the right, on no less than sixty (60) days advance notice to Buyer, to propose
                                      changes to the Outage Schedule. Buyer may provide comments no later than ten
                                      (10) days after receiving Seller’s notice of proposed changes to the Outage
                                      Schedule and Buyer shall permit any changes if doing so would not have a material
                                      adverse impact on Buyer and Seller agrees to reimburse Buyer for any costs and
                                      charges associated with such changes.



                                                                 -39-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (b)      Forced Outages. Seller shall notify Buyer by telephoning Buyer’s Scheduling Coordinator
                              as soon as reasonably possible but no later than ten (10) minutes following the occurrence
                              of a Forced Outage, or if Seller has knowledge that a Forced Outage will occur, within
                              twenty (20) minutes of determining that such Forced Outage will occur. Seller shall relay
                              outage information to Buyer as required by the CAISO Tariff within twenty (20) minutes
                              of the Forced Outage. Seller shall communicate to Buyer the estimated time of return of
                              the Facility as soon as practical. Seller shall promptly prepare and provide to Buyer, all
                              reports of Forced Outages or Planned Outages that Buyer may reasonably require for the
                              purpose of enabling Buyer to comply with CAISO requirements or any Applicable Laws.

                            ARTICLE 6: DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE ASSURANCE

             6.1     Grant of Security Interests/Remedies.

                     (a)      First Priority Security Interest. To secure its obligations under this Agreement hereunder,
                              each Party hereby grants to the other Party, as the secured party, a first priority security
                              interest in, and lien on (and right of setoff against), and assignment of, all such
                              Development Assurance and Performance Assurance posted with Buyer by Seller, and all
                              Performance Assurance posted with Seller by Buyer, in the form of cash collateral or cash
                              equivalent collateral and any and all proceeds resulting therefrom or the liquidation thereof,
                              whether now or hereafter held by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of, Buyer. Within thirty
                              (30) calendar days of the delivery of the Development Assurance or Performance
                              Assurance, as applicable, the delivering Party agrees to take such action as the receiving
                              Party reasonably requires in order to perfect a first-priority security interest in, and lien on
                              (and right of setoff against), such Development Assurance or Performance Assurance as
                              applicable, and any and all proceeds resulting therefrom or from the liquidation thereof,
                              respectively.

                     (b)      Rights and Remedies. Upon or any time after the occurrence and during the continuation
                              of an Event of Default by a Party or an Early Termination Date or the occurrence of any
                              event under this Agreement where Buyer is entitled to draw upon the Development
                              Assurance or Performance Assurance, or where Seller is entitled to draw on the
                              Performance Assurance posted by Buyer, Buyer or Seller, as applicable, may do any one
                              or more of the following:

                              (i)     exercise any of the rights and remedies of a secured party with respect to all
                                      Development Assurance or Performance Assurance, as applicable, including any
                                      such rights and remedies under Applicable Law;

                              (ii)    draw on any outstanding Letter of Credit issued for its benefit and retain any cash
                                      held by Buyer as Development Assurance or Performance Assurance; and

                              (iii)   liquidate all Development Assurance or Performance Assurance, as applicable,
                                      then held by or for the benefit of such Party free from any claim or right of any
                                      nature whatsoever of the other Party, including any equity or right of purchase or
                                      redemption by such other Party, subject to the first Party’s obligation to return any
                                      surplus proceeds remaining after such other Party’s obligations hereunder to such
                                      first Party are satisfied in full.

                     (c)      Application of Proceeds. Each Party shall apply the proceeds of the collateral realized
                              upon the exercise of any such rights or remedies to reduce the other Party’s obligations

                                                                   -40-






DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                      Buyer Performance Assurance within thirty (30) days of the date that Seller
                                      provides notice to Buyer that it has met the Buyer Financial Covenants.

                     (b)      Seller shall be entitled to draw upon the Performance Assurance posted by Buyer for any
                              reason permitted under this Agreement, including Seller’s declaration of an Early
                              Termination Date after the Commercial Operation Date.

                     (c)      Buyer shall maintain Performance Assurance until the following have occurred: (a) the
                              Delivery Term has expired or terminated early; and (b) all payment obligations of Buyer
                              due and payable under this Agreement are paid in full, including compensation for the
                              Termination Payment, indemnification payments, or other damages (whether directly or
                              indirectly such as through set-off or netting). Following the occurrence of both events,
                              Seller shall promptly return to Buyer the unused portion of the Performance Assurance.

                     (d)      No Limitation of Damages. The amount of Buyer Performance Assurance required under
                              this Agreement shall not be deemed a limitation of damages.

                     (e)      Use of Buyer Performance Assurance. Seller shall be entitled to draw upon the Buyer
                              Performance Assurance posted by Buyer for any reason permitted under this Agreement,
                              including Seller’s declaration of an Early Termination Date.

                     (f)      For the avoidance of doubt, Buyer shall not be required to post Development Assurance or
                              any other form of security prior to COD.

             6.4     Letter of Credit. Development Assurance or Performance Assurance provided in the form of a
                     Letter of Credit shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit H-1, or another form
                     reasonably acceptable to the Party to whom the obligation is owed, subject to the following
                     provisions:

                     (a)      Renewal of Letter of Credit. If either Party has provided a Letter of Credit pursuant to any
                              of the applicable provisions in this Article 6, then such Party shall renew or cause the
                              renewal of each outstanding Letter of Credit on a timely basis.

                     (b)      Failure of Letter of Credit and Cure. In the event the issuer of such Letter of Credit at any
                              time: fails to maintain the requirements of an Eligible LC Bank or Letter of Credit, becomes
                              Bankrupt, indicates its intent not to renew such Letter of Credit, or fails to honor the
                              beneficiary Party’s properly documented request to draw on such Letter of Credit, the
                              posting Party shall cure such occurrence by complying with either (i) or (ii) below in an
                              amount equal to the outstanding Letter of Credit, and by completing the action within ten
                              (10) Business Days after the date of the beneficiary Party’s notice to the posting Party of
                              an occurrence listed in this subsection (the posting Party’s compliance with either (i) or (ii)
                              below is considered the “Cure”):

                              (i)     providing a substitute Letter of Credit that is issued by an Eligible LC Bank other
                                      than the bank which is the subject of the beneficiary Party’s notice to the posting
                                      Party in this Section 6.4(b); or

                              (ii)    posting cash.

                     (c)      Failure to Cure. If the posting Party fails to cure, or if such Letter of Credit expires or
                              terminates without a full draw thereon by the beneficiary Party or fails or ceases to be in


                                                                  -43-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              full force and effect at any time that such Letter of Credit is required pursuant to the terms
                              of this Agreement, then the posting Party shall be deemed to have failed to meet the
                              collateral requirements of Section 6.2 or Section 6.3, as applicable, and the beneficiary
                              Party may declare an Event of Default as set forth in Article 8.

                     (d)      Letter of Credit Costs. In all cases, the costs and expenses of establishing, renewing,
                              substituting, canceling, increasing, reducing, or otherwise administering the Letter of
                              Credit shall be borne by the Party that is obligated to post the Letter of Credit.

                                                 ARTICLE 7: FORCE MAJEURE

             7.1     Remedial Action. Subject to the limitation on extensions of Milestones set forth in Section 5.3(e),
                     a Claiming Party shall not be liable to the other Party if the Claiming Party is delayed or prevented
                     from performing its obligations hereunder due to a Force Majeure Event. The Claiming Party shall
                     take all action necessary to remove such inability with all due speed and diligence. The Claiming
                     Party shall be prompt and diligent in attempting to mitigate the effects of and to remove the cause
                     of its failure to perform, and nothing herein shall be construed as permitting the Claiming Party to
                     continue to fail to perform after said cause has been removed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
                     existence of a Force Majeure Event shall not excuse any Party from its obligations to make payment
                     of amounts due hereunder.

             7.2     Notice. In the event of any delay or nonperformance resulting from a Force Majeure Event, the
                     Claiming Party shall, as soon as practicable under the circumstances, notify the other Party, in
                     writing, of the nature, cause, date of commencement, and the anticipated extent of any delay or
                     interruption in performance. The Claiming Party’s failure to give timely notice shall not affect the
                     Claiming Party’s ability to assert that a Force Majeure Event has occurred unless the delay in giving
                     notice materially prejudices the other Party.

             7.3     Termination Due to Force Majeure Event. Subject to the provisions of Section 5.3(e) on
                     extensions of Milestones, if the Claiming Party is prevented in any material respect from
                     performing any material obligations under this Agreement solely due to a Force Majeure Event
                     lasting for a period of three (3) consecutive months or longer, either Party may terminate this
                     Agreement, without liability of either Party to the other, upon thirty (30) calendar days’ prior
                     written notice at any time following expiration of such period of twelve (12) consecutive months.
                     In such event, Buyer shall promptly return to Seller all Development Assurance or Performance
                     Assurance, as applicable, less any damages due and payable by Seller prior to the date of such
                     termination for reasons unrelated to this Section 7.3. This Section 7.3 shall not affect the rights
                     and remedies associated with any other termination rights set forth in this Agreement.

                                    ARTICLE 8: DEFAULT, REMEDIES, AND TERMINATION

             8.1     Events of Default.

                     (a)      Events of Default. The occurrence of any of the following shall constitute an Event of
                              Default by a Party:

                              (i)      the breach of any material obligation or covenant of this Agreement that is not the
                                       subject of a separate Event of Default herein, and such Party fails to cure such
                                       breach within sixty (60) days after written notification of default by the other Party;
                                       provided, however, that the Parties may mutually agree upon a longer period for
                                       cure if the breach cannot reasonably be cured within sixty (60) days, provided,


                                                                   -44-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                      further that the extended cure period will only continue for so long as the Party in
                                      breach is pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence;

                              (ii)    subject to Sections 4.1(d) and 4.1(e), failure to make any payment when due under
                                      this Agreement within fifteen (15) Business Days after written notice that such
                                      payment is due;

                              (iii)   any representation or warranty made by such Party herein is false or misleading in
                                      any material respect when made or when deemed made or repeated, and neither
                                      such circumstance nor the adverse effects of such circumstance are cured or
                                      remedied within thirty (30) days after written notice;

                              (iv)    such Party becomes Bankrupt;

                              (v)     subject to Section 11.1(d), such Party consolidates or amalgamates with, or merges
                                      with or into, or transfers all or substantially all of its assets to, another entity and,
                                      at the time of such consolidation, amalgamation, merger or transfer, the resulting,
                                      surviving or transferee entity fails to assume all the obligations of such Party under
                                      this Agreement to which it or its predecessor was a party by operation of law or
                                      pursuant to an agreement reasonably satisfactory to the other Party; or

                              (vi)    either Party fails to satisfy any of the credit requirements of Article 6 if not cured
                                      within ten (10) Business Days after notice thereof;.

                     (b)      Seller Events of Default. The following shall constitute additional Events of Default by
                              Seller:

                              (i)     The occurrence and continuation of any of the events set forth in Section 5.3(h)
                                      beyond all applicable cure periods;

                              (ii)    except to the extent excused by any Force Majeure Event, Seller fails to maintain
                                      an average Storage Contract Capacity equal to at least seventy-five percent (75%)
                                      of the Guaranteed Installed Capacity over any two (2) consecutive Contract Years
                                      during the Delivery Term;

                              (iii)   Seller fails to maintain an average Monthly Storage Availability of at least sixty
                                      percent (60%) over two (2) consecutive Contract Years; or

                              (iv)    with respect to any Guaranty provided for the benefit of Buyer, the failure by Seller
                                      to provide for the benefit of Buyer either (1) cash, (2) a replacement Guaranty from
                                      a different Guarantor meeting the criteria set forth in the definition of Guarantor,
                                      or (3) a replacement Letter of Credit from an issuer meeting the criteria set forth
                                      in the definition of Letter of Credit, in each case, in the amount required hereunder
                                      within ten (10) Business Days after Seller receives Notice of the occurrence of any
                                      of the following events:

                                      (A)      if any representation or warranty made by the Guarantor in connection
                                               with this Agreement is false or misleading in any material respect when
                                               made or when deemed made or repeated, and such default is not remedied
                                               within thirty (30) days after notice thereof;



                                                                   -45-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                      (B)      the failure of the Guarantor to make any payment required or to perform
                                               any other material covenant or obligation in any Guaranty;

                                      (C)      the Guarantor becomes Bankrupt;

                                      (D)      the Guarantor shall fail to meet the criteria for an acceptable Guarantor as
                                               set forth in the definition of Guarantor;

                                      (E)      the failure of the Guaranty to be in full force and effect (other than in
                                               accordance with its terms) prior to the indefeasible satisfaction of all
                                               obligations of Seller hereunder; or

                                      (F)      the Guarantor shall repudiate, disaffirm, disclaim, or reject, in whole or in
                                               part, or challenge the validity of any Guaranty.

             8.2     Termination for Default.

                     (a)      Declaration of Early Termination Date. If an Event of Default has occurred, is continuing
                              and has not been cured, the non-defaulting Party (the “Non-Defaulting Party”) shall have
                              the right to:

                              (i)     send notice, designating a day, no earlier than ten (10) calendar days and no later
                                      than sixty (60) calendar days after the day such notice is deemed to be received, as
                                      the date on which this Agreement will terminate (the “Early Termination Date”);

                              (ii)    accelerate all amounts owing between the Parties, terminate this Agreement and
                                      end the Delivery Term effective as of the Early Termination Date;

                              (iii)   collect as of the Early Termination Date, (A) the Damage Payment in the case of
                                      an Event of Default arising at any time prior to the Commercial Operation Date,
                                      including an Event of Default pursuant to Section 8.1, or (B) the Termination
                                      Payment in the case of an Event of Default arising after the Commercial Operation
                                      Date;

                              (iv)    withhold any payments due to the Defaulting Party under this Agreement;

                              (v)     suspend performance;

                              (vi)    exercise its rights pursuant to Article 6 of this Agreement to draw upon and retain
                                      Development Assurance or Performance Assurance, as applicable; and

                              (vii)   exercise any other right or remedy available at law or in equity to the extent
                                      otherwise permitted under this Agreement.

                     (b)      Calculation of Damage Payment. If the Early Termination Date occurs prior to the
                              Commercial Operation Date, then the Damage Payment shall be calculated in accordance
                              with this Section 8.2(b).

                              (i)     If Seller is the Defaulting Party, the Damage Payment owed to Buyer shall equal
                                      the entire Development Assurance amount and any accrued interest. Buyer shall
                                      be entitled to retain for its own benefit those funds held as Development Assurance


                                                                  -46-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                      and any accrued interest, and any amount of Development Assurance that Seller
                                      has not yet posted with Buyer shall be immediately due and payable by Seller to
                                      Buyer. There will be no amounts owed to Seller. The Parties agree that Buyer’s
                                      damages in the event of an Early Termination Date prior to the Commercial
                                      Operation Date caused by Seller’s default would be difficult or impossible to
                                      determine with certainty and that the damages set forth in this Section 8.2(b)(i) are
                                      a reasonable approximation of Buyer’s harm or loss.

                              (ii)    If Buyer is the Defaulting Party, then the Damage Payment shall be owed to Seller
                                      and shall equal the sum of all actual, documented, and verifiable costs incurred by
                                      Seller between the Effective Date and the Early Termination Date in connection
                                      with the Facility less the fair market value (determined in a commercially
                                      reasonable manner) of the entire Facility on the Early Termination Date, regardless
                                      of whether or not the entire Facility is actually sold or disposed of. There will be
                                      no amount owed to Buyer.

                     (c)      Calculation of Termination Payment. If the Early Termination Date occurs on or after to
                              the Commercial Operation Date, the Termination Payment shall be calculated by the Non-
                              Defaulting Party as follows:

                              (i)     The Non-Defaulting Party shall calculate, in a commercially reasonable manner, a
                                      Termination Payment as of the Early Termination Date.

                              (ii)    If the Non-Defaulting Party’s aggregate Gains exceed its aggregate Economic
                                      Losses and Costs, if any, resulting from such termination of this Agreement, the
                                      amount of the Termination Payment shall be limited to the amounts set forth in
                                      clause (b) of the definition of Termination Payment.

                              (iii)   The Non-Defaulting Party is not required to enter into replacement transactions to
                                      establish a Termination Payment.

                              (iv)    The Termination Payment shall not include consequential, incidental, punitive,
                                      exemplary, indirect, or business interruption damages.

                     (d)      Notice of Damage Payment or Termination Payment. As soon as practicable after
                              declaration of an Early Termination Date, the Non-Defaulting Party shall give notice to the
                              Defaulting Party of the amount of the Damage Payment or Termination Payment due to or
                              from the Defaulting Party to the Non-Defaulting Party, as applicable. The notice shall
                              include a written statement explaining in reasonable detail the calculation of such amount
                              and the sources for such calculation. The Damage Payment or Termination Payment shall
                              be made to the Non-Defaulting Party fifteen (15) Business Days after such termination
                              payment notice is effective.

                     (e)      Disputes Regarding Damage Payment or Termination Payment. If the Defaulting Party
                              disputes the Non-Defaulting Party’s calculation of the Damage Payment or Termination
                              Payment, in whole or in part, the Defaulting Party shall, within fifteen (15) Business Days
                              of receipt of the Non-Defaulting Party’s calculation of the Damage Payment or
                              Termination Payment, provide to the Non- Defaulting Party a detailed written explanation
                              of the basis for such dispute. Following delivery of such a notice, disputes regarding the
                              Damage Payment or Termination Payment shall be resolved in accordance with Section
                              11.3.

                                                                 -47-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (f)      Rights and Remedies are Cumulative. Except where this Agreement explicitly states that
                              liquidated damages or another remedy is the exclusive remedy, the rights and remedies in
                              this Agreement, including this Article 8, are cumulative.

                     (g)      Mitigation. The Non-Defaulting Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to
                              mitigate its Costs, Economic Losses, and damages resulting from any Event of Default.

             8.3     Limitation of Liability/Liquidated Damages.

                     (a)      THERE IS NO WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
                              PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND ANY AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES ARE
                              DISCLAIMED.

                     (b)      THE PARTIES CONFIRM THAT THE EXPRESS REMEDIES AND MEASURES
                              OF DAMAGES PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT SATISFY THE ESSENTIAL
                              PURPOSES HEREOF. FOR BREACH OF ANY PROVISION FOR WHICH AN
                              EXPRESS REMEDY OR MEASURE OF DAMAGES IS PROVIDED, SUCH
                              EXPRESS REMEDY OR MEASURE OF DAMAGES SHALL BE THE SOLE AND
                              EXCLUSIVE REMEDY, THE OBLIGOR’S LIABILITY SHALL BE LIMITED AS
                              SET FORTH IN SUCH PROVISION AND ALL OTHER REMEDIES OR
                              DAMAGES AT LAW OR IN EQUITY ARE WAIVED, UNLESS THE PROVISION
                              PROVIDES THAT THE EXPRESS REMEDIES ARE IN ADDITION TO OTHER
                              REMEDIES THAT MAY BE AVAILABLE. IF NO REMEDY OR MEASURE OF
                              DAMAGES IS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED HEREIN, THE OBLIGOR’S LIABILITY
                              SHALL BE LIMITED TO DIRECT ACTUAL DAMAGES ONLY, SUCH DIRECT
                              ACTUAL DAMAGES SHALL BE THE SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY AND
                              ALL SUCH OTHER REMEDIES OR DAMAGES AT LAW OR IN EQUITY ARE
                              WAIVED UNLESS EXPRESSLY HEREIN PROVIDED. NEITHER PARTY
                              SHALL BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT FOR
                              ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY OR
                              CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOSS
                              OF USE, LOSS OF REVENUES, LOSS OF PROFIT, OR OTHER BUSINESS
                              INTERRUPTION DAMAGES, INTEREST CHARGES, OR COST OF CAPITAL,
                              BY STATUTE, IN TORT OR CONTRACT, UNDER ANY INDEMNITY
                              PROVISION, OR OTHERWISE; PROVIDED HOWEVER, NOTHING IN THIS
                              SECTION SHALL AFFECT THE ENFORCEABILITY OF THE PROVISIONS OF
                              THIS AGREEMENT RELATING TO EXPRESS REMEDIES OR MEASURE OF
                              DAMAGES. THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT TO THE
                              EXTENT THAT ANY DAMAGES SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT ARE
                              LIQUIDATED, INCLUDING PAYMENTS SET FORTH IN SECTIONS 3.3, 3.6, 5.3,
                              5.6, and 8.2, SUCH DAMAGES ARE EACH REASONABLE AND REPRESENT A
                              FAIR AND GENUINE ESTIMATE OF THE HARM OR LOSS THAT WOULD
                              OCCUR RELATED TO THE EVENTS DESCRIBED THEREIN. THE PARTIES
                              ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT THE DAMAGES FOR THE
                              CIRCUMSTANCES SET FORTH ABOVE WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE OR
                              DIFFICULT TO MEASURE, OR OTHERWISE OBTAINING AN ADEQUATE
                              REMEDY IS IMPRACTICABLE. THE PARTIES FURTHER AGREE THAT
                              PAYMENT OF SUCH AMOUNTS SHALL BE AS AND FOR LIQUIDATED
                              DAMAGES AND NOT AS A PENALTY AND ARE THEREFORE NOT SUBJECT
                              TO AVOIDANCE UNDER CALIFORNIA CIVIL CODE SECTION 1671 AND


                                                                -48-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              THE PARTIES HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO CONTEST SUCH PAYMENTS
                              AS AN UNREASONABLE PENALTY.

                     (c)      BUYER’S PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE
                              LIMITED TO THE PAYMENT OF THE COMPENSATION PROVIDED UNDER
                              THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
                              COMPENSATION PROVIDED FOR IN ARTICLE 3, ARTICLE 4, AND
                              SECTIONS 5.6, 8.2 AND 9.2.

                     (d)      EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED HEREIN, THE RIGHTS AND
                              REMEDIES OF A PARTY PURSUANT TO THIS ARTICLE 9 SHALL BE
                              CUMULATIVE AND IN ADDITION TO THE RIGHTS OF THE PARTIES
                              OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT.

                                                ARTICLE 9: INDEMNIFICATION

             9.1     Seller Indemnification Prior to Commercial Operation Date. Up to and including the
                     Commercial Operation Date, Seller shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Buyer, and its
                     officials, directors, agents and employees (“Buyer Indemnified Party”), from and against all third
                     party claims, liabilities, losses, penalties, arising out of, or in connection with, the negligence,
                     willful misconduct or violation of Applicable Laws by Seller and/or its agents, employees or sub-
                     contractors, excepting only loss, injury or damage caused by the active negligence, willful
                     misconduct or violation of Applicable Laws by a Buyer Indemnified Party.

             9.2     Seller and Buyer Indemnification after Commercial Operation Date. After the Commercial
                     Operation Date, each Party (“Indemnifying Party”) shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the
                     other Party and its elected officials, officers, directors, employees, agents, affiliates and
                     representatives (each, an “Indemnified Party”) from and against any and all losses, including but
                     not limited to losses arising from personal injury or death, or damage to property, but only to the
                     extent such losses result from or arise out of the negligence, willful misconduct or violation of
                     Applicable Laws by the Indemnifying Party.

             9.3     Environmental Indemnity. Seller shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the Buyer
                     Indemnified Parties, from any claim, liability, loss, injury or damage arising out of, or in connection
                     with Environmental Costs and any environmental matters associated with the Facility, including
                     the disposal and transportation of Hazardous Substances by or on behalf of the Seller or at the
                     Seller’s direction or agreement.

             9.4     Notice. If an Indemnified Party or Buyer Indemnified Party determines that it is entitled to defense
                     and indemnification under this Article 9, such Indemnified Party shall promptly notify the
                     Indemnifying Party in writing of the losses, and provide all reasonably necessary or useful
                     information, and authority to settle and/or defend the losses. No settlement that would impose costs
                     or expense upon the Indemnified Party shall be made without such Party’s prior written consent.

                                  ARTICLE 10: REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

             10.1    Seller’s Representations and Warranties. In addition to the representations and warranties set
                     forth in other sections of this Agreement, Seller represents and warrants to Buyer that as of the
                     Execution Date:




                                                                  -49-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (a)      Seller is duly organized and validly existing as a limited liability company under the laws
                              of the State of Delaware, and has the lawful limited liability company power to engage in
                              the business it presently conducts and contemplates conducting in this Agreement, and
                              Seller is duly qualified in California and each jurisdiction wherein the nature of the
                              business transacted by it makes such qualification necessary;

                     (b)      Seller has the legal limited liability company power and authority to make and carry out
                              this Agreement and to perform all of its obligations hereunder and all such actions have
                              been duly authorized by all necessary limited liability company proceedings on its part;

                     (c)      The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by Seller shall not conflict
                              with its governing documents, any Applicable Laws, or any covenant, agreement,
                              understanding, decree or order to which Seller is a party or by which it is bound or affected;

                     (d)      This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Seller and, as of the
                              Execution Date, constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of Seller, enforceable in
                              accordance with its terms against Seller, except to the extent that its enforceability may be
                              limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws
                              affecting the rights of creditors generally or by general principles of equity;

                     (e)      There are no actions, suits, proceedings or investigations pending or, to the knowledge of
                              Seller, threatened in writing, against Seller or any of its affiliates, at law or in equity, before
                              any Governmental Authority, which individually or in the aggregate are reasonably likely
                              to have a materially adverse effect on the business, properties or assets or the condition,
                              financial or otherwise, of Seller, or to result in any impairment of Seller’s ability to perform
                              its obligations under this Agreement; and

                     (f)      It is not Bankrupt and there are no proceedings pending or being contemplated by it or any
                              of its affiliates, or, to its knowledge, threatened against it or its affiliates which would result
                              in it being or becoming Bankrupt.

                     (g)      As of the Execution Date, Seller represents and warrants to Buyer that it has not received
                              notice from or been advised by any existing or potential supplier or service provider that
                              the disease designated COVID-19 or the related virus designated SARS-CoV-2 have
                              caused, or are reasonably likely to cause, a delay in the construction of the Facility or the
                              delivery of materials necessary to complete the Facility, in each case that would cause the
                              Commercial Operation Date to be later than the Guaranteed Commercial Operation Date.

             10.2    Buyer’s Representations and Warranties. Buyer represents and warrants to Seller that as of the
                     Execution Date:

                     (a)      Buyer is a municipal corporation, duly organized and validly existing, and has the lawful
                              power to engage in the business it presently conducts and contemplates conducting in this
                              Agreement;

                     (b)      Buyer has the legal power and authority to make and carry out this Agreement and to
                              perform its obligations hereunder and all such actions have been duly authorized by all
                              necessary proceedings on its part;




                                                                    -50-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (c)      The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by Buyer shall not conflict
                              with its governing documents, any Applicable Laws or any covenant, agreement,
                              understanding, decree or order to which Buyer is a party or by which it is bound or affected;

                     (d)      This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Buyer and, as of the
                              Execution Date, constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of Buyer, enforceable in
                              accordance with its terms against Buyer, except to the extent that its enforceability may be
                              limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws
                              affecting the rights of creditors generally or by general principles of equity;

                     (e)      There are no actions, suits, proceedings or investigations pending or, to the knowledge of
                              Buyer, threatened, in writing, against Buyer, at law or in equity, before any Governmental
                              Authority, which individually or in the aggregate are reasonably likely to have a materially
                              adverse effect on the business, properties or assets or the condition, financial or otherwise,
                              of Buyer, or to result in any impairment of Buyer’s ability to perform its obligations under
                              this Agreement;

                     (f)      It is not Bankrupt and there are no proceedings pending or being contemplated by it or, to
                              its knowledge, threatened against it which would result in it being or becoming Bankrupt.

             10.3    Covenants. In addition to other covenants contained in this Agreement, each Party covenants that
                     throughout the Term:

                     (a)      It shall continue to be duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws
                              of the jurisdiction of its formation;

                     (b)      It shall maintain (or obtain from time to time as required, including through renewal, as
                              applicable) all regulatory authorizations necessary for it to legally perform its obligations
                              under this Agreement; and

                     (c)      It shall perform its obligations under this Agreement in a manner that does not violate any
                              of the terms and conditions in its governing documents, any contracts to which it is a party
                              or any Applicable Law.

             10.4    Additional Buyer Representation and Warranty. Buyer represents and warrants to Seller that
                     the amount certified by the Controller for this Agreement (as referenced in Section 4.3) is sufficient
                     to cover all amounts that would be owed to Seller for the entire Term based on the assumption that
                     Seller delivers the Product for the full Guaranteed Installed Capacity each month without any
                     Guaranteed Storage Availability Liquidated Damages, Annual Round Trip Efficiency Adjustment,
                     or other reduction to the Monthly Payments owed hereunder.

                                                ARTICLE 11: MISCELLANEOUS

             11.1    Assignment.

                     (a)      General Assignment. Except as provided in Sections 11.1(b), (c), and (d), neither Party
                              shall assign this Agreement or its rights hereunder without the prior written consent of the
                              other Party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed so
                              long as among other things, (i) the assignee assumes the transferring Party’s payment and
                              performance obligations under this Agreement, (ii) the assignee agrees in writing to be
                              bound by the terms and conditions hereof, (iii) the transferring Party delivers financial


                                                                  -51-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              statements, information and other evidence satisfactory to the non-transferring Party of the
                              proposed assignee’s technical and financial capability to fulfill the assigning Party’s
                              obligations hereunder, and (iv) the transferring Party delivers such tax and enforceability
                              assurance as the other Party may reasonably request.

                     (b)      Assignment to Financing Providers. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this
                              Section 11.1, Buyer hereby consents to assignment of this Agreement by Seller including
                              to an Affiliate of Seller (for purposes of a portfolio financing) as collateral for any financing
                              or refinancing of the Facility to a Lender. Seller’s obligations under this Agreement shall
                              continue in their entirety in full force and effect. Promptly after granting such interest,
                              Seller shall notify Buyer in writing of the name, physical and electronic addresses, and
                              telephone and facsimile numbers of any Lender to which the Seller’s interest under this
                              Agreement has been assigned. The notice shall include the names of the Lender’s primary
                              contact(s) to whom all communications may be addressed. Seller shall promptly notify
                              Buyer of any changes to the information contained in the notice. As a condition to Buyer’s
                              consent to assignment, the following provisions shall apply to any assignment under this
                              Section 11.1(b):

                              (i)     Lender shall have the right, but not the obligation, to perform any act required to
                                      be performed by Seller under this Agreement to prevent or cure a default by the
                                      Seller and such act performed by Lender shall be as effective to prevent or cure a
                                      default as if done by Seller.

                              (ii)    Buyer shall cooperate with Seller or a Lender to execute or arrange for the delivery
                                      of certificates, consents, opinions, estoppels, amendments, and other documents
                                      reasonably requested by Seller or Lender in order to complete any financing or
                                      refinancing and shall enter into reasonable agreements as necessary to provide for
                                      recognition by Buyer of the Lender’s security interest in this Agreement, or in the
                                      direct or indirect ownership interests in Seller, and such other provisions as may
                                      be reasonably requested by Seller or any Lender, so long as the terms and
                                      conditions of such agreements are consistent with this Agreement and such
                                      amendments or agreements are reasonably acceptable to both Parties.
                                      Additionally, if requested by Seller, Buyer shall provide a consent for the benefit
                                      of Lenders and their agent that have received collateral assignment of the
                                      membership interests in Seller (or Seller’s Affiliate) in lieu of a collateral
                                      assignment of this Agreement, and shall grant the same benefits to such Lenders
                                      and their agent as those that would be provided to a Lender receiving a collateral
                                      assignment of this Agreement. All costs and expenses (including reasonable
                                      attorney’s fees) incurred by Buyer in connection with an assignment of this
                                      Agreement to a Lender, or a collateral assignment of membership interests to a
                                      Lender, shall be borne by Seller.

                              (iii)   In the event of an Event of Default by Seller under this Agreement, Buyer shall
                                      provide a copy of the notice of Event of Default to the Lender pursuant to Section
                                      8.2(a) at the same time as the notice is provided to Seller. Buyer shall accept a
                                      cure performed by a Lender and shall negotiate in good faith with the Lender as to
                                      the cure period(s) allowed for the Lender to cure any Event of Default. Buyer shall
                                      accept a cure by Lender as long as the cure is accomplished within the applicable
                                      cure period. Notwithstanding any Lender cure, Seller shall not be released and
                                      discharged from, and shall remain liable for, any and all obligations to the Buyer
                                      arising or accruing hereunder.

                                                                   -52-






DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              obtained an order, injunctive relief or other appropriate remedy to prevent Buyer from
                              making the requested third-party disclosure.

                     (d)      Non-Confidential Information. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section
                              11.2 nothing shall restrict any Party from using or disclosing information related to this
                              Agreement, including Confidential Information if such information (i) is generally
                              available to the public; (ii) was within the using or disclosing Party’s possession prior to it
                              being furnished hereunder, provided that such information is not subject to another
                              confidentiality agreement with, or other contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation of
                              confidentiality to, any other party with respect to such information; (iii) is rightfully
                              obtained by a Party from third parties authorized to make such disclosure without
                              restriction; (iv) is legally required to be disclosed by judicial or other governmental action
                              as determined by such Party’s attorney acting in good faith; or (v) is disclosed without a
                              duty of confidentiality to a third party by, or with the authorization of, the disclosing Party;
                              or (vi) is furnished to the non-disclosing Party’s Affiliates, or to the auditors, attorneys,
                              advisors, or actual or potential lenders or investors of the non-disclosing Party and/or its
                              Affiliates which are required to keep the information that is disclosed in confidence.

                     (e)      Nondisclosure of Private Information. If this Agreement requires Buyer to disclose
                              “Private Information” to Seller within the meaning of San Francisco Administrative Code
                              Chapter 12M, Seller shall use such information only in accordance with the restrictions
                              stated in Chapter 12M and in this Agreement and only as necessary in performing this
                              Agreement. Seller is subject to the enforcement and penalty provisions in Chapter 12M.

             11.3    Dispute Resolution; Choice of Law.

                     (a)      Negotiation; Dispute Resolution. The Parties will attempt in good faith to resolve any
                              dispute or controversy arising out of or relating to the performance of this Agreement by
                              negotiation. The status of any dispute or controversy notwithstanding, each Party shall
                              proceed diligently with the performance of its obligations under this Agreement in
                              accordance with and subject to the terms of this Agreement. If agreed by both Parties in
                              writing, disputes may be resolved by a mutually agreed-upon alternative dispute resolution
                              process. Neither Party will be entitled to legal fees or costs for matters resolved under this
                              section.

                     (b)      Governing Law; Venue. This Agreement and the rights and duties of the Parties hereunder
                              shall be governed by and construed, enforced and performed in accordance with the laws
                              of the state of California, without regard to principles of conflicts of law. Venue shall be
                              in the County of San Francisco, California.

             11.4    Audit. Each Party has the right, at its sole expense and during normal working hours, to examine
                     the records of the other Party to the extent reasonably necessary to verify the accuracy of any
                     statement, charge or computation made pursuant to this Agreement. The Parties shall maintain
                     such data and records in an accessible location and condition for a period of not fewer than five (5)
                     years after final payment under this Agreement or until after final audit has been resolved,
                     whichever is later.

             11.5    General.

                     (a)      Entire Agreement. This Agreement, the exhibits, attachments, and any written and fully
                              executed supplements hereto, any designated collateral, credit support, or similar

                                                                   -55-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              arrangement between the Parties constitute the entire agreement between the Parties
                              relating to the subject matter.

                     (b)      Construction. This Agreement shall be considered for all purposes as prepared through the
                              joint efforts of the Parties and shall not be construed against one Party or the other as a
                              result of the preparation, substitution, submission or other event of negotiation, drafting or
                              execution.

                     (c)      Amendments. Except to the extent set forth in this Agreement, no amendment or
                              modification to this Agreement shall be enforceable unless reduced to writing and executed
                              by both Parties.

                     (d)      No Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement shall not impart any rights enforceable by
                              any third party (other than a permitted successor or assignee bound to this Agreement).

                     (e)      No Waiver. Waiver by a Party of any default by the other Party shall not be construed as
                              a waiver of any other default.

                     (f)      Change in Law. If any provision of this Agreement is rendered unlawful by action by any
                              Governmental Authority, or any change in Applicable Law, including the CAISO Tariff
                              (a “Change in Law”) occurring after the Execution Date, the remaining lawful obligations
                              that arise under this Agreement shall not be affected. If the Change in Law results in
                              material changes to the Parties’ obligations with regard to any Product sold hereunder so
                              that the performance of this Agreement becomes impossible or impracticable, the Parties
                              shall work in good faith to revise this Agreement so that the Parties may perform their
                              obligations in a manner that maintains to the greatest extent practicable the original intent
                              of the Parties and the benefits, burdens, and obligations under this Agreement. A change
                              in cost shall not in and of itself be deemed to render this Agreement or any provision of
                              this Agreement impossible or impracticable.

                     (g)      Headings. The headings used herein are for convenience and reference purposes only.

                     (h)      Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding on each Party’s successors and assigns.

                     (i)      No Dedication. No undertaking by one Party to the other under any provision of the
                              Agreement shall constitute the dedication of that Party’s system or any portion thereof to
                              the other Party or to the public or affect Seller as an independent entity and not a public
                              utility.

                     (j)      Relationship of the Parties. The duties, obligations and liabilities of the Parties are
                              independent of one another and shall be limited to those expressly set forth herein. The
                              Agreement shall not be interpreted or construed to create an association, joint venture,
                              fiduciary relationship or partnership between Seller and Buyer or to impose any partnership
                              obligation or liability or any trust or agency obligation or relationship upon either Party.
                              Seller and Buyer shall not have any right, power or authority to enter into any agreement
                              or undertaking for, or act on behalf of, or act as or be an agent or representative of or
                              otherwise bind the other Party. Seller and Buyer do not intend to act as, or to be treated as,
                              partners in, co-venturers in, or lessor/lessee with respect to the Facility or any business
                              related to the Facility.




                                                                  -56-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (k)      Limitations on Contributions. By executing this Agreement, Seller acknowledges its
                              obligations under Section 1.126 of the City’s Campaign and Governmental Conduct Code,
                              which prohibits any person who contracts with, or is seeking a contract with, any
                              department of the City for the rendition of personal services, for the furnishing of any
                              material, supplies or equipment, for the sale or lease of any land or building, for a grant,
                              loan or loan guarantee, or for a development agreement, from making any campaign
                              contribution to (i) a City elected official if the contract must be approved by that official, a
                              board on which that official serves, or the board of a state agency on which an appointee
                              of that official serves, (ii) a candidate for that City elective office, or (iii) a committee
                              controlled by such elected official or a candidate for that office, at any time from the
                              submission of a proposal for the contract until the later of either the termination of
                              negotiations for such contract or twelve months after the date the City approves the
                              contract. The prohibition on contributions applies to each prospective party to the contract;
                              each member of Seller’s board of directors; Seller’s chairperson, chief executive officer,
                              chief financial officer and chief operating officer; any person with an ownership interest of
                              more than 10% in Seller; any subcontractor listed in the bid or contract; and any committee
                              that is sponsored or controlled by Seller. Seller certifies that it has informed each such
                              person of the limitation on contributions imposed by Section 1.126 by the time it submitted
                              a proposal for the contract, and has provided the names of the persons required to be
                              informed to the City department with whom it is contracting.

                     (l)      Prohibition on Political Activity with City Funds. In accordance with San Francisco
                              Administrative Code Chapter 12.G, Seller may not participate in, support, or attempt to
                              influence any political campaign for a candidate or for a ballot measure in San Francisco
                              in the performance of this Agreement. Seller agrees to comply with San Francisco
                              Administrative Code Chapter 12.G and any implementing rules and regulations
                              promulgated by the Controller. The terms and provisions of Chapter 12.G are incorporated
                              herein by this reference. In the event Seller violates the provisions of this Section, Buyer
                              may, in addition to any other rights or remedies available hereunder, (i) terminate this
                              Agreement, and (ii) prohibit Seller from bidding on or receiving any new City contract for
                              a period of two years. The Controller will not consider Seller’s use of profit as a violation
                              of this Section.

                     (m)      [Intentionally Omitted]

                     (n)      [Intentionally Omitted]

                     (o)      [Intentionally Omitted]

                     (p)      Submitting False Claims. Pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 21.35,
                              any contractor or subcontractor who submits a false claim shall be liable to Buyer for the
                              statutory penalties set forth in that section. A contractor or subcontractor will be deemed
                              to have submitted a false claim to Buyer if the contractor or subcontractor: (a) knowingly
                              presents or causes to be presented to an officer or employee of Buyer a false claim or
                              request for payment or approval; (b) knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or used
                              a false record or statement to get a false claim paid or approved by Buyer; (c) conspires to
                              defraud Buyer by getting a false claim allowed or paid by Buyer; (d) knowingly makes,
                              uses, or causes to be made or used a false record or statement to conceal, avoid, or decrease
                              an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to Buyer; or (e) is a beneficiary of an
                              inadvertent submission of a false claim to Buyer, subsequently discovers the falsity of the


                                                                   -57-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              claim, and fails to disclose the false claim to Buyer within a reasonable time after discovery
                              of the false claim.

                     (q)      Use of City Opinion. Seller shall not quote, paraphrase, or otherwise refer to or use any
                              opinion of Buyer, its officers of agents, regarding Seller or Seller’s performance under this
                              contract without prior written permission of the Buyer.

                     (r)      Business License Taxes. Seller agrees that it is obligated to pay all amounts due to the City
                              under the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code during the Term of this
                              Agreement. Pursuant to Section 6.10-2 of the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
                              Code, Seller further acknowledges and agrees that City may withhold any payments due to
                              Seller under this Agreement if Seller is delinquent in the payment of any amount required
                              to be paid to the City under the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code. Any
                              payments withheld under this Section 11.5(r) shall be made to Seller, without interest, upon
                              full payment of all taxes owed by Seller and reinstatement of Seller’s vendor certification.

                     (s)      Conflict of Interest. Through its execution of this Agreement, Seller acknowledges that it
                              is familiar with the provision of Section 15.103 of the City’s Charter, Article III, Chapter
                              2 of City’s Campaign and Governmental Conduct Code, and Section 87100 et seq. and
                              Section 1090 et seq. of the Government Code of the State of California, and certifies that
                              it does not know of any facts which constitutes a violation of said provisions and agrees
                              that it will immediately notify Buyer if it becomes aware of any such fact during the term
                              of this Agreement.

                     (t)      City Requirements. Seller shall keep itself fully informed of the City’s Charter, codes,
                              ordinances and regulations of City and of all state, and federal laws in any manner affecting
                              the performance of the Agreement, and must at all times materially comply with such local
                              codes, ordinances, and regulations as they may be amended from time to time. Buyer shall
                              use best efforts to provide notice to Seller of any such amendment to the City’s Charter,
                              codes, ordinances and regulations of which it becomes aware; however, Seller’s obligations
                              under this Section shall not be contingent on notice from Buyer.

                     (u)      Severability. Should any provision of the Agreement be or become void, illegal or
                              unenforceable, the validity or enforceability of the other provisions of the Agreement shall
                              not be affected and shall continue in full force and effect. The Parties shall, however, use
                              their best endeavors to agree on the replacement of the void, illegal, or unenforceable
                              provision(s) with legally acceptable clauses which correspond as closely as possible to the
                              sense and purpose of the affected provision.

                     (v)      Survival. All rights pursuant to: Section 4.1(e) (Disputes and Adjustment of Invoices);
                              Section 5.6(c) (CAISO Charges Invoices); Article 8 (Default; Remedies; and Termination),
                              Article 9 (Indemnification), Section 11.2 (Proprietary or Confidential Information.);
                              Section 11.3 (Dispute Resolution; Choice of Law.), Section 11.4 (Audit. Each Party has
                              the right, at its sole expense and during normal working hours, to examine the records of
                              the other Party to the extent reasonably necessary to verify the accuracy of any statement,
                              charge or computation made pursuant to this Agreement. The Parties shall maintain such
                              data and records in an accessible location and condition for a period of not fewer than five
                              (5) years after final payment under this Agreement or until after final audit has been
                              resolved, whichever is later.); Section 11.5(l) (Prohibition on Political Activity with City
                              Funds. In accordance with San Francisco Administrative Code Chapter 12.G, Seller may
                              not participate in, support, or attempt to influence any political campaign for a candidate

                                                                  -58-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              or for a ballot measure in San Francisco in the performance of this Agreement. Seller
                              agrees to comply with San Francisco Administrative Code Chapter 12.G and any
                              implementing rules and regulations promulgated by the Controller. The terms and
                              provisions of Chapter 12.G are incorporated herein by this reference. In the event Seller
                              violates the provisions of this Section, Buyer may, in addition to any other rights or
                              remedies available hereunder, (i) terminate this Agreement, and (ii) prohibit Seller from
                              bidding on or receiving any new City contract for a period of two years. The Controller
                              will not consider Seller’s use of profit as a violation of this Section.); and Section 11.5(q)
                              (City Opinion) shall also survive termination of this Agreement.

             11.6    Mobile Sierra. Absent the prior written agreement of all Parties, the standard of review for changes
                     to any rate, charge, term, or condition of service of this Agreement, whether proposed by a Party,
                     a non-party or FERC acting sua sponte, shall be the “public interest” standard of review set forth
                     in United Gas Pipe Line Co. v. Mobile Gas Service Corp., 350 U.S. 332 (1956) and Federal Power
                     Commission v. Sierra Pacific Power Co., 350 U.S. 348 (1956).

             11.7    Forward Contract. The Parties acknowledge and agree that this Agreement constitutes a “forward
                     contract” within the meaning of the United States Bankruptcy Code and Buyer and Seller are
                     “forward merchants” within the meaning of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Each Party further agrees
                     that, for all purposes of this Agreement, each Party waives and agrees not to assert the applicability
                     of the provisions of 11 U.S.C. § 366 in any Bankruptcy proceeding wherein such Party is a debtor.
                     In any such proceeding, each Party further waives the right to assert that the other Party is a provider
                     of last resort to the extent such term relates to 11 U.S.C. §366 or another provision of 11 U.S.C. §
                     101-1532.

             11.8    Notices. Unless otherwise stated in this Agreement, any notice, demand, request, or
                     communication required or authorized by this Agreement shall be delivered either by hand,
                     electronic mail, overnight courier or mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested with postage
                     prepaid, to the contacts set forth in the Cover Sheet. Either Party may change any information
                     listed in the Notice section of the Cover Sheet, by written notice as provided in this Section. Any
                     such notice, demand, request, or communication shall be deemed received on the Business Day on
                     which the notice was transmitted if delivery was made by hand or electronic mail, or (ii) upon
                     receipt by the receiving Party if sent by overnight courier or mailed by certified mail, return receipt
                     requested with postage prepaid.

             11.9    Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts and by different
                     Parties on separate counterparts, all of which shall be deemed one and the same agreement and
                     each of which shall be deemed an original. Delivery of an executed counterpart of this Agreement
                     by fax or other electronic means shall be deemed as effective as delivery of an originally executed
                     counterpart. Any Party delivering an executed counterpart of this Agreement by electronic means
                     shall also deliver an originally executed counterpart, but the failure of any Party to deliver an
                     originally executed counterpart of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
                     this Agreement.

                                                [Signature page follows on next page.]




                                                                  -59-




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                                EXHIBIT A

                                  SELLER DOCUMENTATION OF CONDITIONS PRECEDENT

             Part I:
             Seller shall provide to Buyer all of the following documentation within five (5) Business Days after the
             Execution Date:
             1.         A copy of each of (a) the articles of incorporation, certificate of incorporation, operating agreement
                        or similar applicable organizational document of Seller and (b) the by-laws or other similar
                        document of Seller as in effect, or anticipated to be in effect, on the Execution Date.
             2.         A certificate from the jurisdiction of Seller’s incorporation or organization certifying that Seller is
                        duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of such jurisdiction.
             3.         Evidence of Site control (e.g. lease with redacted price terms).
             4.         A copy of the Interconnection Agreement, if any.
             5.         Insurance documentation as required in Exhibit D.
             6.         A copy of the most recent financial statements (which may be unaudited) from Seller’s Parent.
             Part II:
             Seller shall provide to Buyer all of the following documentation in a timely manner following the Execution
             Date:
             1.         Evidence of all Permits received, as applicable, including but not limited to, any copies of all final
                        environmental review documents.
             2.         A copy of the Project Labor Agreement, if any, for the Facility.
             3.         A copy of the load flow analysis and any deliverability assessment performed by the PTO or CAISO
                        to show power flow capacity and/or deliverability at the point of interconnection.
             4.         A copy of all CAISO certification and testing performed for the Facility resource characteristics
                        identified in Exhibit B, including all Ancillary Services, storage Pmax and Pmin, Qualifying
                        Capacity and Net Qualifying Capacity.




                                                                     -61-




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                      Trade Secr
                     Ramp Rate Up (MW/minute):                     to be updated based on the results of each Storage Capacity
                     Test.
                                                           Trade Secret

                     Ramp Rate Down (MW/Minute):                     , to be updated based on the results of each Storage Capacity
                     Test.

                     Rest time required after reaching Minimum storage capacity: N/A

                     Rest time required after reaching Maximum storage capacity: N/A




                                                                          Exhibit B
                                                                           Page 2






DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT C

                                                  INTENTIONALLY RESERVED




                                                             Exhibit C   CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT D

                                                    INSURANCE COVERAGES

             1.      Liability Coverages. Without in any way limiting Seller’s liability pursuant to the
                     “Indemnification” section of this Agreement, Seller must maintain in force, during the full term of
                     the Agreement, insurance in the following amounts and coverages and be responsible for its
                     subcontractors, including Seller’s EPC Contractors, maintaining sufficient limits of the appropriate
                     insurance:
                     (a)      Workers’ Compensation, in statutory amounts, with Employers’ Liability Limits not less
                              than $1,000,000 each accident, injury, or illness; and include a blanket waiver of
                              subrogation; and
                     (b)      Commercial General Liability Insurance with limits not less than $1,000,000 each
                              occurrence and $2,000,000 general aggregate for Bodily Injury and Property Damage,
                              including Contractual Liability, Personal Injury, Products and Completed Operations; and
                     (c)      Commercial Automobile Liability Insurance with limits not less than $1,000,000 each
                              occurrence, “Combined Single Limit” for Bodily Injury and Property Damage, including
                              Owned, Non-Owned and Hired auto coverage, as applicable.
                     (d)      Employer’s Liability Insurance. Employers’ Liability insurance shall not be less than One
                              Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) for injury or death occurring as a result of each accident.
                              With regard to bodily injury by disease, the One Million Dollar ($1,000,000) policy limit
                              will apply to each employee.
                     (e)      Construction All-Risk Insurance. Seller shall maintain or cause to be maintained during the
                              construction of the Facility prior to the Commercial Operation Date, construction all-risk
                              form property insurance covering the Facility during such construction periods, and
                              naming Seller (and Lender if any) as the loss payee.
             2.      Additional Coverages
                     (a)      Property insurance, on an all-risk form, including earthquake and flood, for one hundred
                              percent (100%) of the full replacement value of the Site and Facility or 125% of the Loss
                              Limit of the 1/500 year earthquake/flood event as established by a Maximum Foreseeable
                              Loss earthquake and flood study prepared by the applicable insurer in accordance with
                              current industry standard. Such insurance shall, include Business Interruption coverage in
                              an amount equal to twelve months of revenue from this Agreement.
                     (b)      Seller shall maintain or cause to be maintained during the construction of the Facility prior
                              to the Commercial Operation Date, Pollution Legal Liability Insurance in the amount of
                              two million dollars ($2,000,000) per occurrence and I the aggregate, naming the Seller (and
                              Lender if any) as additional named insured.
             3.      Endorsements.
                     (a)      Commercial General Liability and Commercial Automobile Liability Insurance policies
                              must be endorsed to provide include blanket endorsements:
                              (i)     Name as Additional Insured, the City and County of San Francisco, its Officers,
                                      Agents, and Employees.
                              (ii)    The certificate of insurance shall state that such policies are primary insurance to
                                      any other insurance available to the Additional Insureds, with respect to any claims


                                                              Exhibit D       CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                      arising out of this Agreement, and that insurance applies separately to each insured
                                      against whom claim is made or suit is brought.
                     (b)      All policies shall provide thirty (30) days’ advance written notice of cancellation for any
                              reason, intended non-renewal, or reduction in coverages, except ten (10) days’ notice for
                              non-payment of premiums.
             4.      Length of Coverage. Should any of the required insurance be provided under a claims-made form,
                     Seller shall maintain such coverage continuously throughout the term of this Agreement and,
                     without lapse, for a period of three years beyond the expiration of this Agreement, to the effect that,
                     should occurrences during the Term give rise to claims made after expiration of the Agreement,
                     such claims shall be covered by such claims-made policies.
             5.      Maintenance of Coverage. Should any required insurance lapse during the term of this
                     Agreement, requests for payments originating after such lapse shall not be processed until the Buyer
                     receives satisfactory evidence of reinstated coverage as required by this Agreement, effective as of
                     the lapse date. If insurance is not reinstated, Buyer may, at its sole option, terminate this Agreement
                     effective on the date of such lapse of insurance.
             Certificates. Prior to commencement of the Term, Seller shall furnish to Buyer certificates of insurance
             and additional insured policy endorsements with insurers with ratings comparable to A- , VII or higher, that
             are authorized to do business in the State of California, and that are satisfactory to Buyer, in form evidencing
             all coverages set forth above. Approval of the insurance by Buyer shall not relieve or decrease Seller’s
             liability hereunder.




                                                              Exhibit D        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 2


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT E

                                                     CONSTRUCTION START
                                                       CERTIFICATION

             __(Date)___

             This certification (“Certification”) of the Construction Start Date is delivered by ___________ (“Seller”)
             to the City and County of San Francisco, acting by and through its Public Utilities Commission,
             CleanPowerSF, (“Buyer”) in accordance with the terms of that certain Energy Storage Agreement dated
             ________ (“Agreement”) by and between Seller and Buyer. All capitalized terms used in this Certification
             but not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in the
             Agreement. Seller hereby certifies and represents to Buyer that Construction Start has occurred and :

                        a)    The Construction Start Date occurred on ___________. (“Construction Start Date”);in

                        b)    the Notice to Proceed was issued by Seller to the EPC contractor, [EPS Contractor name[on
                              ______________ (attached), and;

                        c)    mobilization at the Facility Site commenced on __________.



             IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this certificate on behalf of the Seller as of the
             ___ day of ________.

              Seller:                                           [Licensed Professional Engineer]


              Signature:                                        Signature:

              Name:                                             Name:

              Title:                                            Title:

                                                                Date:


                                         License Number and LPE Stamp:




                                                             Exhibit E       CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                              EXHIBIT F

                                                 PROGRESS REPORTING FORM

             Each Progress Report shall include the following items:

             1.      Executive Summary.

             2.      Gantt chart schedule showing progress on achieving each of the Milestones.

             3.      Description of any material planned changes to the Facility or the Facility Site.
             4.       Permitting activities. Provide a detailed summary of the status and progress of each material
             activity involving obtaining Permits including (a) the schedule for relevant Seller submissions and
             applications, (b) the schedule for the relevant Governmental Authority actions, environmental review,
             hearings, and appeals, and (c) information on any potential delays in obtaining Permits for the Facility
             including the nature and cause of the delay.
             5.       Financing activities. Provide a summary of the status and progress of each major financing activity,
             including the date of execution of significant documents, and information on the expected timing of future
             significant activities.
             6.       Major equipment procurement activities. For each type of equipment, list the number of each major
             item to be procured, the manufacturer, model number (if applicable), and rating. List the delivery schedule
             (expected or actual as applicable), breaking out the number of each item to be procured or delivered in each
             Calendar Quarter.
             7.       Construction Activities. Include information on the status of any construction-related factors that
             may affect the ability of the Facility to deliver Product to the Buyer. Include information on the Facility
             infrastructure, generating equipment, and major auxiliary equipment. Also include information on the
             substations, switchyards, gen-ties, telecommunications equipment or other Interconnection Facilities that
             are the direct responsibility of the Facility.
             8.       Interconnection Activities. Include information on interconnection-related factors that may affect
             the ability of the Facility to deliver Product to the Buyer. Include information on the status of
             interconnection studies, Interconnection Agreements, design and construction of Interconnection Facilities
             (e.g., substations, switchyards, gen-ties, system protection schemes, telecommunications equipment to the
             extent not already covered in the Facility construction information), Network Upgrades, and grid outage
             and/or interconnection schedules.
             9.       Startup. Include information on the status of activities related to preparation for Commercial
             Operation, including progress towards the items set forth in Exhibit H-2, the requirements and notifications
             of the grid operator and Transmission Provider, and any other activities that must be conducted before the
             Facility may deliver Energy to the grid and/or declare Commercial Operation.
             For items 4 through 8, include the progress and schedule of all major agreements, contracts, permits,
             approvals, technical studies, financing agreements, and major equipment purchase orders showing the
             start dates, completion dates, and completion percentages. 8. Forecast of activities scheduled for the
             current calendar quarter.

             10.     List of issues that are likely to potentially affect Seller’s Milestones.




                                                               Exhibit F        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                                Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             11.     Pictures, in sufficient quantity and of appropriate detail, in order to document construction and
             startup progress of the Facility, the interconnection into the Transmission System and all other
             interconnection utility services.

             12.     CPUC General Order 156 supplier diversity reporting. Format to be provided by Buyer.

             13.     Any other documentation reasonably requested by Buyer.




                                                             Exhibit F     CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 2


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                              EXHIBIT G-1

                                  FORM OF COMMERCIAL OPERATION CERTIFICATION

                      This certification (“Certification”) of Commercial Operation is delivered by [LICENSED
             PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER] (“Engineer”) to the City and County of San Francisco, acting by and
             through its Public Utilities Commission, CleanPowerSF (“Buyer”) in accordance with the terms of that
             certain Energy Storage Agreement dated _______ (“Agreement”) by and between Seller and Buyer. All
             capitalized terms used in this Certification but not otherwise defined in this Exhibit G-1 shall have the
             meanings assigned to these terms in the Agreement.

             Engineer hereby certifies and represents to Buyer the following:
             1.        The Facility is fully operational and reliable.
             2.        The Facility is interconnected, fully integrated, and synchronized with the Transmission System.
             3.        The Facility’s Installed Capacity is no less than ninety-five percent (95%) and no more than one
                       hundred percent (100%) of the Guaranteed Installed Capacity and the Facility is capable of
                       charging, storing, and discharging Energy, subject to the applicable Operating Parameters.
             4.        The Facility has met all Interconnection Agreement requirements and is capable of receiving
                       Charging Energy from, and delivering Discharging Energy to, the CAISO Balancing Authority up
                       to the Guaranteed Installed Capacity.
             5.        The commissioning of all equipment for the Facility has been completed in accordance with the
                       manufacturers’ specifications.
             6.        Authorization to parallel the Facility was obtained by the Transmission Provider on
                       ____[DATE]____.
             7.        The Transmission Provider has provided documentation supporting full unrestricted release for
                       Commercial Operation by [Name of Transmission Provider ] on _______[DATE]_____.
             8.        The CAISO has provided notification supporting Commercial Operation, in accordance with the
                       CAISO tariff on _______[DATE]_____.



             EXECUTED by ENGINEER this ________ day of _____________, 20__.
              Licensed Professional Engineer:
              Signature:
              Name:
              Title:




                                                               Exhibit G-1   CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                                 Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT G-2

                                    FORM OF INSTALLED CAPACITY CERTIFICATION

             This certification of the Installed Capacity is delivered by [licensed professional engineer] to the City and
             County of San Francisco, acting by and through its Public Utilities Commission, CleanPowerSF, in
             accordance with the terms of the Energy Storage Agreement dated ___________, (“Agreement”) by and
             between Buyer and Seller. All capitalized terms used in this certification but not otherwise defined herein
             shall have the meanings set forth in the Agreement.

             I hereby certify the following:

             The Storage Capacity Test demonstrated a maximum dependable operating capability that can be sustained
             for [__] consecutive hours to discharge electric energy of [__] MW AC to the Delivery Point, in accordance
             with the testing procedures, requirements and protocols set forth in Section 5.4 and Exhibit K prior to the
             Commercial Operation Date (“Installed Capacity”).

             EXECUTED BY [LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER]


             This ______ day of ____________, 20__.

                                                               [Licensed Professional Engineer]




                                                               Signature:

                                                               Name:




                                                             Exhibit G-2      CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT H-1

                                                 FORM OF LETTER OF CREDIT

                                              [Issuing Bank Letterhead and Address]
                                         STANDBY LETTER OF CREDIT NO. XXXXXXXX
             Date: [Insert issue date]
              Beneficiary: City and County of San Francisco, Applicant: [Insert name and address of
                           acting by and                     Applicant]
                           through its Public Utilities
                           Commission, CleanPowerSF
                           525 Golden Gate Avenue
                           San Francisco, CA 94102
                           Attn:

                     Letter of Credit Amount: [insert Amount]
                     Expiry Date: [insert expiry date]
                     Ladies and Gentlemen:
                 By order of [insert name of Applicant] (the “Applicant”), we [insert name of issuing bank, and the
             city and state in which it is located] (the “Bank”) hereby issue in favor of the City and County of San
             Francisco, acting by and through its Public Utilities Commission, CleanPowerSF, (the “Beneficiary”) this
             irrevocable standby letter of credit No. [insert number of letter of credit] (the “Letter of Credit”), for the
             account of Applicant, for drawings up to but not to exceed the aggregate sum of U.S. $ [insert amount in
             figures followed by (amount in words)] (the “Letter of Credit Amount”). This Letter of Credit is available
             with the Bank by sight payment, at the Bank’s offices located at the address stated below, effective
             immediately, and it shall expire at our close of business on [insert expiry date] (the “Expiry Date”).

                     Funds under this Letter of Credit are available to the Beneficiary against presentation of the
             following documents:
             1.      Beneficiary’s signed and dated sight draft in the form of Exhibit J-2 hereto, referencing this Letter
                     of Credit No. [insert number] and stating the amount of the demand; and

             2.      One of the following statements signed by an authorized representative or officer of Beneficiary:

                     A.       Pursuant to the terms of that certain [insert name of the agreement] (the
                              “Agreement”), dated [insert date of the Agreement], between Beneficiary and [insert
                              name of Seller under the Agreement], Beneficiary is entitled to draw under Letter of
                              Credit No. [insert number] amounts owed by [insert name of Seller under the
                              Agreement] under the Agreement; or

                     B.       “Letter of Credit No. [insert number] shall expire in thirty (30) days or less and [insert
                              name of Seller under the Agreement] has not provided replacement security
                              acceptable to Beneficiary.

             Special Conditions:

             1.      Partial and multiple drawings under this Letter of Credit are allowed;

                                                             Exhibit H-1      CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             2.      All banking charges associated with this Letter of Credit are for the account of the Applicant;

             3.      This Letter of Credit is not transferable; and

             4.      The Expiry Date of this Letter of Credit shall be automatically extended without an amendment
                     hereto for a period of one year from the current Expiry Date and any future Expiry Date, unless at
                     least sixty (90) days prior to the Expiry Date, we send you written notice by express courier that
                     this Letter of Credit will not be so extended for such additional period.

                     The Bank engage with Beneficiary that drafts drawn under and in compliance with the terms of this
             Letter of Credit will be duly honored upon presentation, on or before the Expiry Date (or after the Expiry
             Date as provided below), at the Bank’s offices located at [insert issuing bank’s address for drawings].

                      All demands for payment shall be made by presentation of originals or copies of documents; or by
             facsimile transmission of documents to [insert fax number], Attention: [insert name of issuing bank’s
             receiving department], with originals or copies of documents to follow by overnight mail. If presentation
             is made by facsimile transmission, Beneficiary may contact the Bank at [insert phone number] to confirm
             receipt of the transmission. Beneficiary’s failure to seek such a telephone confirmation does not affect the
             Bank’s obligation to honor such a presentation.

                      The Bank’s payments against complying presentations under this Letter of Credit shall be made no
             later than on the sixth (6th) banking day following a complying presentation.

                    Except as stated herein, this Letter of Credit is not subject to any condition or qualification. It is
             the Bank’s individual obligation, which is not contingent upon reimbursement and is not affected by any
             agreement, document, or instrument between us and the Applicant or between the Beneficiary and the
             Applicant or any other party.

                     Except as otherwise specifically stated herein, this Letter of Credit is subject to and governed by
             the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits, 2007 Revision, International Chamber of
             Commerce (ICC) Publication No. 600 (the “UCP 600”); provided that, if this Letter of Credit expires during
             an interruption of the Bank’s business as described in Article 36 of the UCP 600, we shall honor drafts
             presented in compliance with this Letter of Credit within thirty (30) days after the resumption of the Bank’s
             business and effect payment accordingly. The law of the State of New York shall apply to any matters not
             covered by the UCP 600.

                    For telephone assistance regarding this Letter of Credit, please contact us at [insert number and
             any other necessary details].




                                                             Exhibit H-1      CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 2


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT H-2
                                                     FORM OF SIGHT DRAFT

                     TO: [INSERT NAME AND ADDRESS OF PAYING BANK]

                     AMOUNT: $                                 DATE:

                   AT SIGHT OF THIS DEMAND PAY TO THE ORDER OF ______________ THE AMOUNT
             OF U.S.$_____________________________________________________U.S. DOLLARS) DRAWN
             UNDER [INSERT NAME OF ISSUING BANK] LETTER OF CREDIT NO. XXXXXX.

                     REMIT FUNDS AS FOLLOWS:



                     [INSERT PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS]


                                                               DRAWER



                                                               By:         ________________________________
                                                                       Name and Title




                                                             Exhibit H-2       CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021






DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT K
                                                  STORAGE CAPACITY TESTS

             I.      Storage Capacity Test Frequency.

             1.      Initial Storage Contract Capacity Tests. Upon no less than ten (10) Business Days’ prior Notice to
                     Buyer, Seller shall schedule and complete a Storage Capacity Test prior to the Commercial
                     Operation Date. The initial SCT shall be performed in accordance with this Exhibit N and shall
                     establish the initial Storage Contract Capacity and Round Trip Efficiency Rate hereunder based on
                     the actual capacity of the Facility determined by the SCT.

             2.      Subsequent Storage Capacity Tests. Commencing in the second Contract Year and in each
                     subsequent Contract Year, within the first quarter of each calendar year of the Delivery Term and
                     upon no less than ten (10) Business Days prior Notice to Buyer, Seller shall schedule and complete
                     a Storage Capacity Test. Buyer shall have the right to require a retest not more than four (4) times
                     per Contract Year upon no less than five (5) Business Days prior written notice to Seller, or any
                     shorter period reasonable acceptable to Seller consistent with Prudent Operating Practice; unless
                     Buyer reasonably shows that the actual storage capacity demonstrated by operating records is less
                     than the current Storage Contract Capacity, in which case Buyer may conduct another retest in the
                     same Contract Year. Seller shall have the right to conduct not more four (4) tests and retests in the
                     aggregate per Contract Year, including with respect to the initial Storage Capacity Test conducted
                     before the Commercial Operation Date, upon no less than five (5) Business Days’ prior written
                     notice to Buyer, or any shorter period reasonable acceptable to Buyer consistent with Prudent
                     Operating Practice.

             3.      Test Results and Re-Setting of Storage Contract Capacity. No later than fifteen (15) days following
                     any SCT, Seller shall submit a test report detailing results and findings of the test. The report shall
                     include meter readings and plant log sheets verifying the operating conditions and output of the
                     Facility. In accordance with Section 5.4(f) of the Agreement and Part III below, the actual capacity
                     determined pursuant to a Storage Capacity Test (up to, but not in excess of, the Guaranteed Installed
                     Capacity) shall become the new Storage Contract Capacity at the beginning of the day following
                     the completion of the Storage Capacity Test for all purposes under this Agreement.

             II.     Storage Capacity Test Procedures.

             1.       General. Each SCT (including the initial SCT) shall be conducted in accordance with Prudent
                      Operating Practice, CAISO’s testing procedures for energy storage facilities, and the provisions
                      of this Exhibit K. Buyer or its representative may be present for the SCT and may, for
                      informational purposes only, use its own metering equipment (at Buyer’s sole cost).

             2.       Conditions Prior to Testing.

                     A.       Energy Management System (EMS) Functionality. The EMS shall be successfully
                              configured to receive data from the Battery Management System (BMS), exchange DNP3
                              data with the Buyer SCADA device, and transfer data to the database server for the
                              calculation, recording and archiving of data points.

                     B.       Communications. The Remote Terminal Unit (RTU) testing should be successfully
                              completed prior to any testing. The interface between Seller’s RTU and the Facility
                              SCADA System should be fully tested and functional prior to starting any testing, including

                                                              Exhibit K        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              verification of the data transmission pathway between the Seller’s RTU and Seller’s EMS
                              interface and the ability to record SCADA System data.

                     C.       Commissioning. Commissioning shall be successfully completed per manufacturer
                              guidance on all applicable installed Facility equipment, including verification that all
                              controls, set points, and instruments of the EMS are configured.

             3.      Requirements Applicable to all Storage Capacity Tests.

                     A.       Purpose of Test. Each SCT shall:

                              (1)     Determine an updated Storage Contract Capacity;
                              (2)     Determine the amount of Energy required to fully charge the Facility;
                              (3)     Determine the Facility charge ramp rate;
                              (4)     Determine the Facility discharge ramp rate;

                     B.       Parameters. During each SCT, the following parameters shall be measured and recorded
                              simultaneously for the Facility, at an interval necessary to support the Test Showing
                              calculations no longer than 10 minutes:

                              (1)     Time (minutes);
                              (2)     Charging Energy (MWh);
                              (3)     Discharging Energy (MWh);
                              (4)     Stored Energy Level (MWh);
                              (5)     Station Uses (MWh).

                     C.       Conditions. During each SCT, the following conditions at the Site shall be measured and
                              recorded simultaneously at thirty (30) minute intervals:

                              (1)     Relative humidity (%);
                              (2)     Barometric pressure (inches Hg) near the horizontal centerline of the Facility;
                              (3)     Ambient air temperature (°F).

                     D.       Test Showing. Each SCT shall record and report the following datapoints:
                              (1)     That the SCT successfully started;
                              (2)     The maximum sustained discharging level for four (4) consecutive hours pursuant
                                     to A(1) above;
                              (3)     The maximum sustained charging level for a period of consecutive hours equal to
                                     four (4) hours divided by the Guaranteed Round Trip Efficiency;
                              (4)     Amount of time between the Facility’s electrical output going from 0 to the
                                     maximum sustained discharging level registered during the Test (for purposes of
                                     calculating the Ramp Rate);
                              (5)     Amount of time between the Facility’s electrical input going from 0 to the
                                     maximum sustained charging level registered during the Test (for purposes of
                                     calculating the Ramp Rate);
                              (6)     Amount of Charging Energy and Energy In, registered at the Facility Meter, to go
                                     from 0% SOC to 100% SOC;
                              (7)     Amount of Facility Energy and Energy Out, registered at the Facility Meter, to go
                                     from 100% SOC to 0% SOC.


                                                             Exhibit K       CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 2


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     E.       Test Conditions.

                              (1)     General. At all times during a SCT, the Facility shall be operated in compliance
                                      with Prudent Operating Practice and all operating protocols recommended,
                                      required or established by the manufacturer for operation.
                              (2)     Abnormal Conditions. If abnormal operating conditions that prevent the
                                      recordation of any required parameter occur during a SCT, Seller may postpone or
                                      reschedule all or part of such SCT in accordance with Part II.2.F below.
                              (3)     Instrumentation and Metering. Seller shall provide all instrumentation, metering
                                      and data collection equipment required to perform the SCT. The instrumentation,
                                      metering and data collection equipment electrical meters shall be calibrated in
                                      accordance with Prudent Operating Practice.

                     F.       Incomplete Test. If any SCT is not completed in accordance with this Exhibit N, Buyer
                              may in its sole discretion: (i) accept the results up to the time the SCT stopped without any
                              modification to the Storage Contract Capacity pursuant to Section III, below; (ii) require
                              that the portion of the SCT not completed, be completed within a reasonable specified time
                              period; or (iii) require that the SCT be entirely repeated. Notwithstanding the above, if
                              Seller is unable to complete a SCT due to a Force Majeure Event or the actions or inactions
                              of Buyer, the CAISO, or the Transmission Provider, Seller shall be permitted to reconduct
                              such SCT on dates and at times reasonably acceptable to the Parties.

                     G.       Final Report. Within five (5) Business Days after the completion of any SCT, Seller shall
                              prepare and submit to Buyer a written report of the results of the SCT, which report shall
                              include:

                              (1)     a record of the personnel present during the SCT that served in an operating,
                                      testing, monitoring or other such participatory role;
                              (2)     the measured data for each parameter set forth in Part II.2.A through C, including
                                      copies of the raw data taken during the test;
                              (3)     the level of Storage Contract Capacity, Charging Capacity, Discharging Capacity
                                      and Stored Energy Level determined by the SCT, including supporting
                                      calculations;
                              (4)     the Round Trip Efficiency; and
                              (5)     Seller’s statement of either Seller’s acceptance of the SCT or Seller’s rejection of
                                      the SCT results and reason(s) therefor.

                              Within ten (10) Business Days after receipt of such report, Buyer shall notify Seller in
                              writing of either Buyer’s acceptance of the SCT results or Buyer’s rejection of the SCT
                              and reason(s) therefor. If either Party rejects the results of any SCT, such SCT shall be
                              repeated in accordance with Part II.2.F.

             3.      Supplementary Storage Capacity Test Protocol. No later than sixty (90) days prior to conducting
                     the initial SCT, Seller shall deliver to Buyer for its review and approval (such approval not to be
                     unreasonably delayed or withheld) a supplement to this Exhibit K with additional and
                     supplementary details, procedures and requirements applicable to SCTs based on the then current
                     design of the Facility (“Supplementary Storage Test Protocol”). Thereafter, from time to time,
                     Seller may deliver to Buyer for its review and approval (such approval not to be unreasonably
                     delayed or withheld) any Seller recommended updates to the then current Supplementary Storage
                     Test Protocol. The initial Supplementary Storage Test Protocol (and each update thereto), once
                     approved by Buyer, shall be deemed an amendment to this Exhibit K.
                                                              Exhibit K       CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 3


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             III.    Storage Capacity Test Results and Re-Setting of Storage Contract Capacity.

             The total amount of Discharging Energy delivered to the Delivery Point (expressed in MWh AC) during
             each of the first four (4) hours of discharge (up to, but not in excess of, the product of (i) the Guaranteed
             Installed Capacity multiplied by (ii) four (4) hours) shall be divided by four (4) hours to determine the
             Storage Contract Capacity, which shall be expressed in MW AC, and shall be the new Storage Contract
             Capacity commencing at the beginning of the day following the completion of the test for calculating the
             Contract Price and for all other purposes under this Agreement.




                                                             Exhibit K        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 4


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                               EXHIBIT L
                                                 AVAILABILITY CALCULATION

             Calculation of Monthly Storage Availability. Seller shall calculate the “Monthly Storage Availability” for
             each month of the Delivery Term using the formula set forth below:

                                                                         [MONHRSm – UNAVAILHRSm]
              Monthly Storage Availability (%) =
                                                                                     [MONHRSm]

                     where:
                              m = the relevant month “m” in which availability is calculated;
                              MONHRSm is the total number of hours for the applicable month;
                     UNAVAILHRSm, is the total number of hours, or partial hours, in the month during which the
                     Facility was unavailable to deliver Product for any reason other than the occurrence of any one or
                     more of the following (each, an “Availability Excused Event”): a Force Majeure Event; Buyer
                     breach or Event of Default; System Emergency; the Storage Capacity Test conducted prior to the
                     Commercial Operation Date, any Buyer Dispatched Test, and up to one Seller Initiated Test per
                     Contract Year; up to one hundred eighty (180) hours of scheduled maintenance (including Planned
                     Outages) and Facility Rebalancing Dispatches in the aggregate in any Contract Year; or the
                     Operating Parameters. For clarification, (i) hours of unavailability caused by any Availability
                     Excused Event will not be included in UNAVAILHRS, and (ii) during any period when the Facility
                     is available to deliver Product, but delivery is not possible due to a Curtailment in the same period,
                     the Facility shall be deemed to be available for purposes of calculating the Monthly Storage
                     Availability and such period shall not be included in UNAVAILHRS.
                              Partial Hours and Partial Availability: If, for any reason other than an Availability Excused
                              Event, the Facility is unavailable for less than a full hour or if a portion of the Facility is
                              unavailable during any hour, the hours in which the Facility is partially available will be
                              adjusted by an equivalent percentage to reflect the reduction in availability and will be
                              included in this calculation of UNAVAILHRSm. Any Availability Excused Event that
                              results in unavailability of the Facility for less than a full hour or unavailability of a portion
                              of the Facility during any hour, the hours in which the Facility is partially available will be
                              adjusted by an equivalent percentage to reflect the reduction in availability for this
                              calculation.
                              If the Facility or any component thereof was previously deemed unavailable for an hour or
                              part of an hour and Seller provides a revised Notice indicating the Facility is available for
                              that hour or part of an hour at least sixty (60) minutes prior to the time the Buyer is required
                              to schedule or bid the Facility in the Real-Time Market, the Facility will be deemed to be
                              available to the extent set forth in the revised Notice.
             Guaranteed Storage Availability Liquidated Damages
             The applicable “Guaranteed Storage Availability Liquidated Damages” are calculated as follows:
                     (i)      If the Monthly Storage Availability is greater than or equal to          %, then:
                                                                                                 Trade Se




                              Guaranteed Storage Availability Liquidated Damages = 0
                                                                                                                        Trade S
                     (ii)     If the Monthly Storage Availability is less than        %, but greater than or equal to         %,
                                                                                 Trade S



                              then:

                                                               Exhibit L         CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                                Page 1




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                    720                        720

                     The Guaranteed Storage Availability Damages for the month equals
                    Trade Secret
                                                                                           Trade Secret
             Sample 3:
                     Assumptions:
                         o    Month has 30 days (720 MONHRSm);
                         o    The Facility is 100% unavailable during 300 hours for reasons not constituting Availability
                              Excused Events.
                     UNAVAILHRS = 300 hours

                                                [720 – 300]                    420
              Monthly        Storage
                                                                                                         58%
              Availability (%) =
                                                    720                        720

                     The Guaranteed Storage Availability Damages for the month equals      Trade Secret
                     Trade Secret




                                                              Exhibit L      CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 3






DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT N

                                               SOCIAL IMPACT PARTNERSHIP (SIP)


             Terms and Conditions

             Seller’s SIP Commitments included in its proposal are set forth in this Exhibit N and constitute contractual
             obligations under this Agreement.

             Seller shall not allocate or include any hours or dollars for delivery of Seller’s SIP Commitments in Seller’s
             costs for the products sold under this Agreement. Seller shall fund the SIP Commitments independently
             and such funding shall neither be tied to, nor dependent upon, SFPUC funds or sources of funding
             receivable from SFPUC. This requirement of independent funding includes direct financial contributions
             and any costs related to the performance or delivery of the SIP Commitments. The provision of SIP
             Commitments does not entitle Seller to additional costs or benefits beyond the scope specified within the
             Agreement.

             Seller shall commence performance of the SIP Commitments after the Execution Date. SIP Commitments
             performed as part of previous contracts or prior to the Execution Date cannot count towards Seller’s SIP
             Commitments for this Agreement. If Seller has established programs or plans that are consistent with the
             SIP Commitments, Seller may continue those programs as part of its SIP Commitments and will be given
             credit for activities that are performed following the Execution Date.

             In the event that fulfillment of SIP Commitments becomes impossible or impracticable, the Seller may
             request a modification to its SIP Commitments by documenting the impossibility or impracticability of
             proceeding with its existing SIP Commitments and proposing one or more alternatives that are at least equal
             in value subject to review and approval by the SFPUC.

             Project Team

             The SIP Plan to be developed by Seller will specify the Executive in Charge and Community Benefits
             Coordinator. The Executive in Charge shall manage the Seller’s SIP Commitments, provide fiduciary
             oversight, and ensure that the SIP Commitments listed in the Summary Table below are delivered to the
             communities that they are intended to benefit in a transparent and accountable manner. The Executive in
             Charge shall work with the SIP Coordinator to organize, plan, track, measure, and report to the Buyer on
             Seller’s SIP Commitments. If the Seller replaces the Executive in Charge and the Community Benefits
             Coordinator, the Seller must inform the SFPUC in writing.

             SIP Commitments

             Seller shall provide a minimum total SIP Commitment contribution with a value of at leastTrade Secret over
             the term as stated in Contractor’s SIP Proposal and the SIP Commitments Table below.




                                                              Exhibit N       CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 1




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              reports shall identify activities and detail the quantifiable outcomes, key metrics, and the
                              total number of volunteer hours and/or financial commitments performed during that
                              period. As part of the bi-annual progress reports, the Seller must also submit
                              documentation to substantiate that the SIP Commitments and any funds or volunteer
                              hours associated therewith were delivered (a non-exhaustive, illustrative list of examples
                              of substantiating documentation includes timesheets, receipts, cancelled checks, sign-in
                              sheets from events and trainings, formal agreement documents, agendas and presentations
                              from meetings, and statements of activities). The Seller must submit progress reports by
                              the last business day of the month following the close of the 2nd and 4th business
                              quarters and are only required if there were activities completed in the reporting.
                         o    The Contractor shall also submit an annual newsletter to the SFPUC SIP Team
                              documenting the highlights of the SIP Commitments and outcomes for the year and is
                              only required if there were activities completed in that year.




                                                             Exhibit N        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 3


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT O
                                                      FORM OF GUARANTY

             This Guaranty (this “Guaranty”) is entered into as of [_____] (the “Effective Date”) by and between
             [_____], a [______] (“Guarantor”), and The City and County of San Francisco, acting by and through its
             Public Utilities Commission, CleanPowerSF (together with its successors and permitted assigns, “Buyer”).

                                                              Recitals

             A.       Buyer and Corby Energy Storage, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Seller”), entered
             into that certain Energy Storage Agreement (as amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time,
             the “ESA”) dated as of [____], 20___.

             B.      Guarantor is entering into this Guaranty as [Development Assurance/Performance Assurance] to
             secure Seller’s obligations under the ESA, as required by Article 6 of the ESA.

             C.      It is in the best interest of Guarantor to execute this Guaranty inasmuch as Guarantor will derive
             substantial direct and indirect benefits from the execution and delivery of the ESA.

             D.      Initially capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meaning set forth in the ESA.

                                                             Agreement

             1.      Guaranty. For value received, Guarantor does hereby unconditionally, absolutely and irrevocably
             guarantee, as primary obligor and not as a surety, to Buyer the prompt payment by Seller of any and all
             amounts and payment obligations now or hereafter owing from Seller to Buyer under the ESA, including,
             without limitation, liquidated damages, compensation for penalties, the Termination Payment,
             indemnification payments or other damages, as and when required pursuant to the terms of the ESA (the
             “Obligations”), and any and all expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) reasonably incurred by
             Buyer in enforcing its rights under this Guaranty, provided, that Guarantor’s aggregate liability under or
             arising out of this Guaranty for payment of the Obligations shall not exceed ________ Dollars
             ($___________) (the “Guaranteed Amount”). The Parties understand and agree that any payment by
             Guarantor or Seller of any portion of the Obligations shall thereafter reduce the Guaranteed Amount
             hereunder on a dollar-for-dollar basis. This Guaranty is an irrevocable, absolute, unconditional and
             continuing guaranty of the full and punctual payment, and not of collection, of the Obligations and, except
             as otherwise expressly addressed herein, is in no way conditioned upon any requirement that Buyer first
             attempt to collect the payment of the Obligations from Seller, any other guarantor of the Obligations or any
             other Person or entity or resort to any other means of obtaining payment of the Obligations. In the event
             Seller shall fail to duly, completely or punctually pay any Obligations as required pursuant to the ESA,
             Guarantor shall promptly pay such amount as required.

             2.       Demand Notice. For avoidance of doubt, a payment shall be due for purposes of this Guaranty
             only when and if a payment is due and payable by Seller to Buyer under the terms and conditions of the
             ESA. If Seller fails to pay any Obligations as required pursuant to the ESA within five (5) Business Days
             following Seller’s receipt of Buyer’s written notice of such failure (the “Demand Notice”), then Buyer may
             elect to exercise its rights under this Guaranty and may make a demand upon Guarantor (a “Payment
             Demand”) for such unpaid Obligations. A Payment Demand shall be in writing and shall reasonably specify
             in what manner and what amount Seller has failed to pay and an explanation of why such payment is due
             and owing, with a specific statement that Buyer is requesting that Guarantor pay under this Guaranty.
             Guarantor shall pay such amount within five (5) Business Days following its receipt of the Payment

                                                             Exhibit O       CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             Demand from Buyer.

             3.        Scope and Duration of Guaranty. This Guaranty shall continue in full force and effect from the
             Effective Date until the earlier of the following: (x) all Obligations have been paid in full (whether directly
             or indirectly through set-off or netting of amounts owed by Buyer to Seller), (y) replacement Performance
             Security is provided in an amount and form required by the terms of the ESA, or (z) the 18-year anniversary
             of the Effective Date]. Further, this Guaranty (a) shall remain in full force and effect without regard to, and
             shall not be affected or impaired by any invalidity, irregularity or unenforceability in whole or in part of
             this Guaranty, and (b) subject to the preceding sentence, shall be discharged only by complete performance
             of the undertakings herein. Notwithstanding anything in this Guaranty to the contrary, Guarantor reserves
             to itself all rights, setoffs, counterclaims and other defenses to which Seller is or may be entitled arising
             from or out of the Agreement, except for defenses (if any) based upon the bankruptcy, insolvency,
             dissolution or liquidation of Seller or any lack of power or authority of Seller to enter into and/or perform
             the Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder
             shall not be released, discharged, or otherwise affected and this Guaranty shall not be invalidated or
             impaired or otherwise affected for any of the following reasons:

                     (i)      the extension of time for the payment of any Guaranteed Amount,

                     (ii)     any amendment, modification or other alteration of the ESA,

                     (iii)    any indemnity agreement Seller may have from any party,

                     (iv)     any insurance that may be available to cover any loss, except to the extent insurance
                              proceeds are used to satisfy the Guaranteed Amount,

                     (v)      any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, receivership, insolvency, bankruptcy,
                              assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization, arrangement, composition or
                              readjustment of, or other similar proceeding affecting, Seller or any of its assets, including
                              but not limited to any rejection or other discharge of Seller’s obligations under the ESA
                              imposed by any court, trustee or custodian or any similar official or imposed by any law,
                              statue or regulation, in each such event in any such proceeding,

                     (vi)     the release, modification, waiver or failure to pursue or seek relief with respect to any other
                              guaranty, pledge or security device whatsoever,

                     (vii)    any payment to Buyer by Seller that Buyer subsequently returns to Seller pursuant to court
                              order in any bankruptcy or other debtor-relief proceeding,

                     (viii)   those defenses based upon (A) the legal incapacity or lack of power or authority of any
                              Person, including Seller and any representative of Seller to enter into the ESA or perform
                              its obligations thereunder, (B) lack of due execution, delivery, validity or enforceability,
                              including of the ESA, or (C) Seller’s inability to pay any Guaranteed Amount or perform
                              its obligations under the ESA, or

                     (ix)     any other event or circumstance that may now or hereafter constitute a defense to payment
                              of the Guaranteed Amount, including, without limitation, statute of frauds and accord and
                              satisfaction.

             4.     Waivers by Guarantor. Guarantor hereby unconditionally waives as a condition precedent to the
             performance of its obligations hereunder, with the exception of the requirements in Paragraph 2, (a) notice

                                                              Exhibit O        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 2


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             of acceptance, presentment or protest with respect to the Obligations and this Guaranty, (b) notice of any
             action taken or omitted to be taken by Buyer in reliance hereon, (c) any requirement that Buyer exhaust any
             right, power or remedy or proceed against Seller under the ESA, and (d) any event, occurrence or other
             circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a surety. Without limiting
             the generality of the foregoing waiver of surety defenses, it is agreed that the occurrence of any one or more
             of the following shall not affect the liability of Guarantor hereunder:

                     (i)          at any time or from time to time, without notice to Guarantor, the time for payment of any
                                  Obligations shall be extended, or such performance or compliance shall be waived,

                     (ii)         the obligation to pay any Obligations shall be modified, supplemented or amended in any
                                  respect in accordance with the terms of the ESA,

                     (iii)        subject to Paragraph 9, any (a) sale, transfer or consolidation of Seller into or with any
                                  other entity, (b) sale of substantial assets by, or restructuring of the corporate existence of,
                                  Seller or (c) change in ownership of any membership interests of, or other ownership
                                  interests in, Seller, or

                     (iv)         the failure by Buyer or any other Person to create, preserve, validate, perfect or protect any
                                  security interest granted to, or in favor of, Buyer or any Person.

             5.      Subrogation. Notwithstanding any payments that may be made hereunder by the Guarantor,
             Guarantor hereby agrees that until payment in full of all Obligations, it shall not be entitled to, nor shall it
             seek to, exercise any right or remedy arising by reason of its payment of any Obligations under this
             Guaranty, whether by subrogation or otherwise, against Seller or seek contribution or reimbursement of
             such payments from Seller.

             6.      Representations and Warranties. Guarantor hereby represents and warrants that:

                             a. it has all necessary and appropriate corporate powers and authority and the legal right to
                                execute and deliver, and perform its obligations under, this Guaranty,

                             b. it is an Affiliate of Seller,

                             c. it has a credit rating assigned by S&P of BBB- or higher, or by Moody’s of Baa3 or higher,
                                to its unsecured, senior long-term debt obligations (not supported by third party credit
                                enhancements), or if it does not have a rating for its senior unsecured long-term debt, then
                                the rating then assigned to such entity as an issuer rating, provided, that if the ratings by
                                S&P and Moody’s are not equivalent, the lower rating shall apply;

                             d. it has a tangible net worth of at least   Trade Secret                                         ,

                             e. it will treat its obligations under this Guaranty pari passu with its senior unsecured debt
                                obligations,

                             f.   Guarantor has subjected itself to the jurisdiction of the state and federal courts of San
                                  Francisco County, California and agrees to be subject to service of process in connection
                                  therewith,

                             g. this Guaranty constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligations enforceable against it in
                                accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy,


                                                                   Exhibit O        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                                    Page 3


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              insolvency, moratorium and other similar laws affecting enforcement of creditors’ rights
                              or general principles of equity,

                         a. the execution, delivery and performance of this Guaranty does not and will not contravene
                            Guarantor’s organizational documents, any applicable Law or any contractual provisions
                            binding on or affecting Guarantor which would invalidate or materially impair Guarantor’s
                            ability to perform its obligations under this Guaranty,

                         b. there are no actions, suits or proceedings pending before any court, governmental agency
                            or arbitrator, or, to the knowledge of the Guarantor, threatened, against or affecting
                            Guarantor or any of its properties or revenues which may, in any one case or in the
                            aggregate, adversely affect the ability of Guarantor to enter into or perform its obligations
                            under this Guaranty, and

                         c. no consent or authorization of, filing with, or other act by or in respect of, any arbitrator or
                            Governmental Authority, and no consent of any other Person (including, any stockholder
                            or creditor of the Guarantor), that has not heretofore been obtained is required in connection
                            with the execution, delivery, performance, validity or enforceability of this Guaranty by
                            Guarantor.

             7.      Notices under this Guaranty shall be deemed received if sent to the address specified below: (i) on
             the day received if served by overnight express delivery, and (ii) four (4) Business Days after mailing if
             sent by certified, first class mail, return receipt requested. Any party may change its address or email
             address to which notice is given hereunder by providing notice of the same in accordance with this
             Paragraph 7.

                     If delivered to Buyer, to it at:




                     If delivered to Guarantor, to it at:                 [____]
                                                                          Attn: [____]


                       Governing Law and Forum Selection. This Guaranty shall be governed by, and interpreted and
             construed in accordance with, the laws of the United States and the State of California, excluding choice of
             law rules. The Parties agree that any suit, action or other legal proceeding by or against any party (or its
             affiliates or designees) with respect to or arising out of this Guaranty shall be brought in the federal courts
             of the United States or the courts of the State of California sitting in the City and County of San Francisco,
             California.

             9.       Miscellaneous. This Guaranty shall be binding upon Guarantor and its successors and assigns and
             shall inure to the benefit of Buyer and its successors and permitted assigns. No provision of this Guaranty
             may be amended or waived except by a written instrument executed by Guarantor and Buyer. This Guaranty
             is not assignable by Guarantor without the prior written consent of Buyer. This Guaranty is not assignable by
             Buyer without the prior written consent of Guarantor. No provision of this Guaranty confers, nor is any
             provision intended to confer, upon any third party (other than Buyer’s successors and permitted assigns) any
             benefit or right enforceable at the option of that third party. This Guaranty embodies the entire agreement and
             understanding of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior or

                                                              Exhibit O        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 4


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             contemporaneous agreements and understandings of the parties hereto, verbal or written, relating to the subject
             matter hereof. If any provision of this Guaranty is determined to be illegal or unenforceable (i) such provision
             shall be deemed restated in accordance with applicable laws to reflect, as nearly as possible, the original
             intention of the parties hereto and (ii) such determination shall not affect any other provision of this Guaranty
             and all other provisions shall remain in full force and effect. This Guaranty may be executed in any number of
             separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original, and all of said counterparts
             taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument. This Guaranty may be executed and
             delivered by electronic means with the same force and effect as if the same was a fully executed and delivered
             original manual counterpart.

                                                        [Signature on next page]




                                                               Exhibit O        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                                Page 5


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this Guaranty to be duly executed and
             delivered by its duly authorized representative on the date first above written.

                                                              GUARANTOR:

                                                              [_______]


                                                              By:______________________________

                                                              Printed Name:__________________
                                                              Title:____________________________


                                                              BUYER:

                                                              [_______]


                                                              By:______________________________

                                                              Printed Name:__________________
                                                              Title:____________________________

                                                              By:______________________________

                                                              Printed Name:__________________
             Title:____________________________




                                                             Exhibit O    CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 6


                                                                    ATTACHMENT 2
                                                                                                                              R   d
                                                                                                                        Oda y
                                     Midway Rd




                                                                    Meridian Rd N



Victor Ln




                                                                              80
                                                                              %
                                                                              &
                                                                              '
                                                                              (


                          Mills Ln
                                                                                           Byrnes Rd




        Ellsworth Rd
                                                      Kilkenny Rd




                              Rd
                         nn
                    ui
                   Q




                                                                                                                Vacaville City Limits
                                                 Walnut Rd                                                      Northeast Growth Area
                                                                                                                PG&E Substation
                                                                                                                Peaker Plant Parcel
                                                                                                                County BESS Application



                                                                                                       LOCATION MAP
                          CITY OF VACAVILLE
                              COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                              DEPARTMENT                               N            BESS FACILITIES INTERIM ORDINANCE
                                                                                     DATE PLOTTED: 05/06/2024


ATTACHMENT 3




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




               Buyer: City and County of San Francisco, acting by       Seller: Corby Energy Storage, LLC
               and through its Public Utilities Commission,
               CleanPowerSF
              Credit and Collections:                                  Credit and Collections:
                 Attn: Edward Kwong                                      Attn: Brantley Pierce
                 Phone: (415) 551-4518                                   Phone: 561-694-3296
                 E-mail: EKwong@sfwater.org                              Facsimile: 561-304-5849
                                                                         Email: CreditMailbox@nee.com
              With additional Notices of an Event of Default or
              Potential Event of Default to:                           With additional Notices of an Event of Default or
                                                                       Potential Event of Default to:
                 Attn: Michael Hyams Phone: (415) 554-1590               Attn: General Counsel
                 Email: MHyams@sfwater.org                               Email: NEER-General-
                                                                         Counsel@nexteraenergy.com
                 Attn: Theresa Cho, Deputy City Attorney Phone:
                 (415) 554-6549
                 Email: theresa.cho@sfcityatty.org




                                                                    -iii-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                              Page

             ARTICLE 1:       DEFINITIONS................................................................................................................... 1
             ARTICLE 2:       CONDITIONS PRECEDENT AND TERM ................................................................... 15
                     2.1      Conditions Precedent to Term of Agreement ................................................................... 15
                     2.2      Term, Delivery Term, and Extension ............................................................................... 16
                     2.3      Extended Delivery Term and Purchase Option................................................................. 17
             ARTICLE 3:       PURCHASE AND SALE OF PRODUCT ...................................................................... 18
                     3.1      Purchase and Sale ............................................................................................................. 18
                     3.2      Contract Price ................................................................................................................... 18
                     3.3      Capacity Attributes and Resource Adequacy.................................................................... 19
                     3.4      Ancillary Services ............................................................................................................. 20
                     3.5      Environmental Attributes .................................................................................................. 20
                     3.6      Performance Guarantees ................................................................................................... 20
                     3.7      Surplus Cycles Carry-over ................................................................................................ 21
                     3.8      Compliance Cost Cap ....................................................................................................... 21
             ARTICLE 4:       BILLING, PAYMENT, AND CERTIFICATION .......................................................... 22
                     4.1      Billing and Payment.......................................................................................................... 22
                     4.2      Designated Fund/Limited Obligations .............................................................................. 24
                     4.3      Guaranteed Maximum Costs............................................................................................. 25
             ARTICLE 5:       FACILITY DEVELOPMENT, OPERATION, AND MAINTENANCE ....................... 25
                     5.1      General Obligations .......................................................................................................... 25
                     5.2      Facility Construction and Milestones ............................................................................... 26
                     5.3      Guaranteed Construction Start Date and Guaranteed Commercial Operation Date ......... 27
                     5.4      Storage Capacity Tests...................................................................................................... 31
                     5.5      Operation and Maintenance .............................................................................................. 32
                     5.6      Scheduling ........................................................................................................................ 35
                     5.7      Energy Management ......................................................................................................... 37
                     5.8      Capacity Availability Notice............................................................................................. 38
                     5.9      Outages ............................................................................................................................. 39
             ARTICLE 6:       DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE ASSURANCE ........................................... 40
                     6.1      Grant of Security Interests/Remedies ............................................................................... 40
                     6.2      Seller Development Assurance and Performance Assurance ........................................... 41
                     6.3      Buyer Performance Assurance.......................................................................................... 42
                     6.4      Letter of Credit.................................................................................................................. 43

                                                                                   -iv-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             ARTICLE 7:       FORCE MAJEURE ......................................................................................................... 44
                     7.1      Remedial Action ............................................................................................................... 44
                     7.2      Notice ................................................................................................................................ 44
                     7.3      Termination Due to Force Majeure Event ........................................................................ 44
             ARTICLE 8:       DEFAULT, REMEDIES, AND TERMINATION .......................................................... 44
                     8.1      Events of Default .............................................................................................................. 44
                     8.2      Termination for Default .................................................................................................... 46
                     8.3      Limitation of Liability/Liquidated Damages .................................................................... 48
             ARTICLE 9:       INDEMNIFICATION ..................................................................................................... 49
                     9.1      Seller Indemnification Prior to Commercial Operation Date ........................................... 49
                     9.2      Seller and Buyer Indemnification after Commercial Operation Date ............................... 49
                     9.3      Environmental Indemnity ................................................................................................. 49
                     9.4      Notice ................................................................................................................................ 49
             ARTICLE 10:      REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES................................................................ 49
                     10.1     Seller’s Representations and Warranties .......................................................................... 49
                     10.2     Buyer’s Representations and Warranties .......................................................................... 50
                     10.3     Covenants.......................................................................................................................... 51
                     10.4     Additional Buyer Representation and Warranty ............................................................... 51
             ARTICLE 11:      MISCELLANEOUS ........................................................................................................ 51
                     11.1     Assignment ....................................................................................................................... 51
                     11.2     Proprietary or Confidential Information ........................................................................... 54
                     11.3     Dispute Resolution; Choice of Law .................................................................................. 55
                     11.4     Audit ................................................................................................................................. 55
                     11.5     General .............................................................................................................................. 55
                     11.6     Mobile Sierra .................................................................................................................... 59
                     11.7     Forward Contract .............................................................................................................. 59
                     11.8     Notices .............................................................................................................................. 59
                     11.9     Counterparts ...................................................................................................................... 59




                                                                                    -v-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBITS

                     The following Exhibits constitute a part of this Agreement and are incorporated into the Agreement
             by reference.

                     EXHIBIT A                 SELLER DOCUMENTATION OF CONDITIONS PRECEDENT
                     EXHIBIT B                 FACILITY DESCRIPTION AND SITE DRAWINGS
                     EXHIBIT C                 INTENTIONALLY RESERVED
                     EXHIBIT D                 INSURANCE COVERAGES
                     EXHIBIT E                 CONSTRUCTION START CERTIFICATION
                     EXHIBIT F                 PROGRESS REPORTING FORM
                     EXHIBIT G-1               FORM OF COMMERCIAL OPERATION CERTIFICATION
                     EXHIBIT G-2               FORM OF INSTALLED CAPACITY CERTIFICATION
                     EXHIBIT H-1               FORM OF LETTER OF CREDIT
                     EXHIBIT H-2               FORM OF SIGHT DRAFT
                     EXHIBIT I                 FORM OF REPLACEMENT RA NOTICE
                     EXHIBIT J                 OPERATING PARAMETERS
                     EXHIBIT K                 STORAGE CAPACITY TESTS
                     EXHIBIT L                 AVAILABILITY GUARANTEE
                     EXHIBIT M                 ROUND TRIP EFFICIENCY ADJUSTMENT
                     EXHIBIT N                 SOCIAL IMPACT PARTNERSHIP
                     EXHIBIT O                 FORM OF GUARANTY




                                                                -vi-




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             Applicable Laws: Any statute, law, treaty, rule, tariff, regulation, ordinance, code, permit, enactment,
             injunction, order, writ, decision, authorization, judgment, decree or other legal or regulatory determination
             or restriction by a court or Governmental Authority of competent jurisdiction, including the CAISO, or any
             binding interpretation of the foregoing, as any of them is amended or supplemented from time to time, that
             apply to either or both of the Parties or the terms of the Agreement.

             Availability Excused Event: Has the meaning set forth in Exhibit L.

             Availability Notice: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.8(b).

             Availability Standards: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Available Capacity: Means the capacity of the Facility, expressed in whole MWs, that is mechanically
             available to charge and discharge Energy and provide Ancillary Services.

             Bankrupt: With respect to any entity, such entity (a) files a petition or otherwise commences, authorizes
             or acquiesces in the commencement of a proceeding or cause of action under any bankruptcy, insolvency,
             reorganization or similar law, (b) has any such petition filed or commenced against it and such case filed
             against it is not dismissed within sixty (60) calendar days, (c) makes an assignment or any general
             arrangement for the benefit of creditors, (d) otherwise becomes bankrupt or insolvent (however evidenced),
             (e) has a liquidator, administrator, receiver, trustee, conservator or similar official appointed with respect
             to it or any substantial portion of its property or assets, or (f) is generally unable to pay its debts as they fall
             due.

             Board of Supervisors: The Board of Supervisors for the City and County of San Francisco.

             Business Day: Any day except a Saturday, Sunday, a Federal Reserve Bank holiday, or a City and County
             of San Francisco holiday, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. local time for the relevant Party’s
             principal place of business. The relevant Party, in each instance unless otherwise specified, shall be the
             Party from whom the notice, payment or delivery is being sent and by whom the notice or payment or
             delivery is to be received.

             Buyer: The City and County of San Francisco, acting by and through its Public Utilities Commission,
             CleanPowerSF.

             Buyer Dispatched Test: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(c).

             Buyer Financial Covenants: Has the meaning set forth in Section 6.3(a)(i).

             Buyer Indemnified Party: Has the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.

             CAISO: The California Independent System Operator Corporation, or its functional successor.

             CAISO Certification: Means the certification and testing requirements for an energy storage unit set forth
             in the CAISO Tariff that are applicable to the Facility, including certification and testing for PMAX, and
             PMIN associated with such storage units, that are applicable to the Facility, but excluding testing and
             certification for Ancillary Services which shall not be required as a condition to the occurrence of the
             Commercial Operation Date.

             CAISO Charges Invoice: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.6(c).



                                                                     -2-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             CAISO Dispatch: Any Charging Notice or Discharging Notice given by the CAISO to the Facility,
             whether through Automated Dispatch System, Automatic Generation Control (as those terms are defined
             in the CAISO Tariff) or any successor communication protocol, communicating an Ancillary Service
             Award (as defined in the CAISO Tariff) or directing the Facility to charge or discharge at a specific MW
             rate for a specified period of time or amount of MWh.

             CAISO Tariff: The California Independent System Operator Corporation, Fifth Replacement FERC
             Electric Tariff, Business Practice Manuals (BPMs), and Operating Procedures, as may be amended,
             supplemented or replaced (in whole or in part) from time to time.

             Capacity Attributes: Any current or future defined characteristic (including the ability to store, charge,
             or discharge energy at a given capacity level, provide Ancillary Services, and ramp up or ramp down at a
             given rate), certificate, tag, credit, flexibility, locational, or dispatchability attribute, whether general in
             nature or specific as to the location or any other attribute of the Facility, intended to value any aspect of the
             capacity of the Facility to store, charge, or discharge energy, including Resource Adequacy Benefits, any
             accounting construct, or any other measure by the CPUC, the CAISO, the FERC, or any other
             Governmental Authority with jurisdiction.

             Capacity Damages: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3(j).

             Capacity Procurement Mechanism (CPM) Soft Offer Cap: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO
             Tariff.

             CEQA: The California Environmental Quality Act, California Public Resources Code Sections 21000, et.
             seq., as it may be amended from time to time.

             Change in Law: Has the meaning set forth in Section 11.5(f).

             Charging Energy: The Energy delivered to the Facility pursuant to a Charging Notice as measured by the
             Facility Meter, as adjusted pursuant to applicable CAISO requirements for any applicable Electrical Losses
             or Station Use. All Charging Energy shall be used solely to charge the Facility. For avoidance of doubt:
             (i) Charging Energy shall be measured at the Facility Meter, as adjusted pursuant to applicable CAISO
             requirements for any applicable Electrical Losses, and (ii) there is no Station Use during periods in which
             Charging Energy is being delivered.

             Charging Notice: The operating instruction and any subsequent updates given by Buyer, Buyer’s SC, or
             the CAISO to Seller, directing the Facility to charge at a specific MW rate for a specified period of time or
             amount of MWh.

             City: The City and County of San Francisco.

             Claiming Party: Has the meaning set forth in the definition of Force Majeure Event.

             CleanPowerSF: Buyer’s community choice aggregation program.

             Commercial Operation: The condition of the Facility existing when Seller has fulfilled all of the
             conditions set forth in Section 2.2(b)(ii) and Seller has provided notice to Buyer in the form of the
             Commercial Operation Certification set forth in Exhibit G-1.

             Commercial Operation Certification: Seller’s certification of Commercial Operation for the Facility in
             the form set forth as Exhibit G-1, executed by a Licensed Professional Engineer.


                                                                    -3-




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             Daily Delay Liquidated Damages Rate or Daily Delay LD Rate: Has the meaning set forth in
             Section 5.3(b)(iii).

             Damage Payment: The amount to be paid by the Defaulting Party to the Non-defaulting Party in the event
             of a termination of this Agreement prior to the COD and as calculated pursuant to Section 8.2(b).

             Day-Ahead Market or DAM: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Defaulting Party: The Party that has caused an Event of Default.

             Delivery Point: Vaca-Dixon 230 kV substation bus.

             Delivery Term: Has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(b)(i).

             Development Assurance: The collateral provided by Seller to Buyer to secure Seller’s obligations
             hereunder in accordance with Section 6.2(a)(i) of this Agreement.

             Discharging Energy: All Energy discharged from the Facility to the Delivery Point pursuant to CAISO’s
             dispatch based on a Discharging Notice, as measured at the Facility Meter and adjusted pursuant to
             applicable CAISO requirements for any applicable Electrical Losses. For the avoidance of doubt: (i) all
             Discharging Energy will have originally been delivered to the Facility as Charging Energy, and (ii) there is
             no Station Use during periods in which Discharging Energy is being delivered.

             Discharging Notice: An operating instruction, and any subsequent updates, given by Buyer, Buyer’s SC,
             or the CAISO to the Facility, directing the Facility discharge Discharging Energy at a specific MW rate for
             a specified period of time or to an amount of MWh.

             Dispatch Notice: Any Charging Notice, Discharging Notice and any subsequent updates, given by the
             CAISO, Buyer, or Buyer’s SC, to Seller directing the Facility to charge Charging Energy or to discharge
             Discharging Energy at a specific MWh rate to a specified Stored Energy Level; provided, any such
             operating instruction or updates shall be in accordance with the Operating Parameters.

             Dispatch Instruction: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Early Termination Date: Has the meaning set forth in Section 8.2(a)(i).

             Economic Losses: With respect to the Non-Defaulting Party, an amount equal to the present value of the
             economic loss to it, if any (exclusive of Costs), resulting from the termination of this Agreement for the
             remainder of the Term, determined in a commercially reasonable manner, and subject to Sections 8.2(c)
             and 8.3. Factors used in determining the loss of economic benefit may include reference to information
             either available to the Non-Defaulting Party internally or supplied by one or more third parties, including
             quotations (either firm or indicative) for a like amount of a like Product at the same or reasonably equivalent
             pNode of relevant rates, prices, yields, yield curves, volatilities, spreads or other relevant market data in the
             relevant markets, market price referent, market prices for a comparable transaction, forward price curves
             based on economic analysis of the relevant markets, settlement prices for a comparable transaction at liquid
             trading hubs (e.g. NYMEX), all of which should be calculated for the remainder of the Term to determine
             the value of the Product, including Environmental Attributes and Capacity Attributes. The Non-Defaulting
             Party shall not be required to enter into replacement transactions to establish Economic Losses. Economic
             Losses shall exclude (1) associated loss of investment tax credits and other lost tax benefits, (2) any costs,
             penalties, fees, or charges associated with the termination of related financing agreements or similar



                                                                    -5-






DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             Force Majeure Event: An event or circumstance, including without limitation, a natural disaster,
             lightning, flood, earthquake, tornado, fire, explosion, epidemic, pandemic, war, riot, act of terrorism,
             sabotage, destruction by a third party, or civil disturbance, which prevents one Party (“Claiming Party”)
             from performing all or a portion of its material obligations under this Agreement, which event or
             circumstance was not anticipated as of the Execution Date, or, if anticipated, could not be avoided or
             overcome through reasonable efforts, which is not within the reasonable control of (whether direct or
             indirect), or the result of the action or inaction of, the Claiming Party, and which, by the exercise of due
             diligence, the Claiming Party is unable to overcome or avoid or cause to be avoided. Neither Party may
             raise a claim of Force Majeure based in whole or in part on:

                     (a)      failures or delays by the Transmission Provider and/or the CAISO in entering into, or
                              performing under, any agreements with Seller contemplated by this Agreement, including
                              a failure to complete, or a delay in completing, interconnection or Electric System
                              Upgrades by the Commercial Operation Date except to the extent that such delay is solely
                              caused by a Force Majeure Event;

                     (b)      a strike, work stoppage, or labor dispute;

                     (c)      Seller’s failure to obtain additional funds, including funds authorized by a state or the
                              federal government or agencies thereof, to supplement the payments made by Buyer
                              pursuant to this Agreement;

                     (d)      Seller’s inability to obtain Permits of any type, except where such failure is solely caused
                              by a Force Majeure Event; provided, however, that Seller’s inability to obtain Permits may
                              constitute a Permitted Extension as specified in Section 5.3(c)(iv);

                     (e)      Seller’s inability to obtain sufficient labor, equipment, materials, or other resources to build
                              or operate the Facility, except to the extent such inability is caused by a Force Majeure
                              Event;

                     (f)      any equipment failure, except to the extent such failure is caused by a Force Majeure Event;

                     (g)      a Forced Outage except to the extent such Forced Outage is caused by a Force Majeure
                              Event;

                     (h)      a Curtailment Order, except to the extent that such Curtailment Order is caused by a Force
                              Majeure Event; or

                     (i)      economic conditions that render a Party’s performance of this Agreement at the Contract
                              Price unprofitable or otherwise uneconomic (including an increase in component costs for
                              any reason, including foreign or domestic tariffs), including Buyer’s ability to buy Product
                              at a lower price, or Seller’s ability to sell Product at a higher price.

             Forced Labor: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1(g).

             Forced Outage: Any unplanned reduction or suspension of the operation of the Facility or unavailability
             of the Product in whole or in part in response to a mechanical, electrical, or equipment malfunction and any
             other unavailability of the Facility, in whole or in part, for maintenance or repair that is not a Planned
             Outage and not the result of Force Majeure.

             Full Capacity Deliverability Status or FCDS: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.


                                                                   -8-




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             materials, asbestos, urea formaldehyde foam insulation, and transformers or other equipment that contain
             polychlorinated biphenyls, and (c) any other chemical or other material or substance for which exposure to
             or release of such substance is prohibited, limited, or regulated by Applicable Laws.

             Indemnified Party: Has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2.

             Indemnifying Party: Has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2.

             Initial Synchronization: The initial delivery of Discharging Energy to the Delivery Point.

             Installed Capacity: The maximum dependable operating capability to discharge Energy that can be
             sustained for four (4) consecutive hours that achieves Commercial Operation as measured by the Facility
             Meter and adjusted for Electrical Losses to the Delivery Point, as determined by a Storage Capacity Test
             and as set forth in the Installed Capacity Certificate substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit G-2.

             Interconnection Agreement: The agreement and associated documents (or any successor agreement and
             associated documentation) by and among Seller (or its Affiliate), the Transmission Provider, and the
             CAISO governing the terms and conditions of the Facility’s interconnection with the CAISO grid, including
             any description of the plan for interconnection of the Facility to the Transmission Provider’s system.

             Interconnection Facilities: The interconnection facilities, control and protective devices and metering
             facilities required to connect the Facility to the transmission system as set forth in the Interconnection
             Agreement.

             Investment Grade: A Credit Rating of “Baa3” or better from Moody’s or “BBB-” or better from S&P.

             ITC: The investment tax credit established pursuant to Section 48 of the United States Internal Revenue
             Code of 1986.

             kW: Kilowatt.

             LAR Attributes: Means any and all resource adequacy attributes (or other location attributes related to
             system reliability) of the Facility, as may be identified from time to time by the CPUC, CAISO, or other
             Governmental Authority having jurisdiction, that can be counted toward a load serving entity’s LAR.

             Late Payment Fee: Has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b).

             Lender(s): Any Person(s) providing money or extending credit (including any capital lease) to Seller or
             any Affiliate of Seller, including in the form of debt or tax equity, for (a) the construction of the Facility,
             (b) the term or permanent financing of the Facility, or (c) working capital or other ordinary business
             requirements for the Facility. “Lender(s)” shall not include any trade creditor(s) of Seller.

             Letter of Credit or LC: An irrevocable, non-transferable standby letter of credit issued by an Eligible LC
             Bank in a form that is substantially similar to the form contained in Exhibit H-1. Costs of a Letter of Credit
             shall be borne by the applicant for such Letter of Credit.

             Licensed Professional Engineer: A third-party acceptable to Buyer in its reasonable judgment who (a) is
             licensed to practice engineering in California, (b) has training and experience in the power industry specific
             to the technology of the Facility, (c) has no economic relationship, association, or nexus with Seller or
             Buyer, other than to meet the obligations of Seller pursuant to this Agreement, (d) is not a representative of
             a consultant, engineer, contractor, designer or other individual involved in the development of the Facility


                                                                  -10-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             or of a manufacturer or supplier of any equipment installed at the Facility, and (e) is licensed in an
             appropriate engineering discipline for the required certification being made. Notwithstanding the
             foregoing, the Licensed Professional Engineer may be a third party, independent engineer engaged in
             connection with any financing or refinancing, including any tax equity financing, involving the Facility.

             Local Area Requirements or LAR: Means the local area reliability requirements established for load
             serving entities by the CPUC pursuant to the Resource Adequacy Rulings, by CAISO pursuant to the
             CAISO Tariff, or by other Governmental Authority having jurisdiction. LAR may also be known as local
             area reliability, local resource adequacy, local resource adequacy procurement requirements, or local
             capacity requirement in other regulatory proceedings or legislative actions.

             Market Results Interface-Settlements: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Business Practice
             Manual for Definitions and Acronyms.

             Master File: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Mechanical Completion: The condition of the Facility existing when (i) all components and systems of
             the Facility have been properly constructed, installed and functionally tested according to Seller’s EPC
             contract requirements in a safe and prudent manner that does not void any equipment or system warranties
             or violate any permits, approvals or Applicable Laws; (ii) the Facility is ready for startup testing and
             commissioning; (iii) Seller has provided written acceptance to the EPC Contractor of mechanical
             completion as that term is specifically defined in the EPC contract.

             Milestones: The key development activities required for the construction and operation of the Facility, as
             set forth more particularly in Section 5.2(a).

             Monthly Payment: Has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a)(i).

             Monthly Storage Availability: Has the meaning set forth in Exhibit L.

             Monthly Forecast: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.8(a).

             Moody’s: Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.

             MW: Megawatt.

             MWh: Megawatt hour.

             NEOP: Has the meaning set forth in Section 11.1(d)(i).

             NEP: Has the meaning set forth in Section 11.1(d)(i).

             NERC: The North American Electric Reliability Corporation or a successor organization.

             Net Qualifying Capacity or NQC: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Network Upgrades: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Non-Defaulting Party: Has the meaning set forth in Section 8.2(a).

             Notice to Proceed: The full notice to proceed provided by Seller to the EPC Contractor following
             execution of the EPC contract between Seller and such EPC Contractor and satisfaction of all conditions to

                                                                -11-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             performance of such contract, by which Seller authorizes such EPC Contractor to begin construction of the
             Facility without any delay or waiting periods.

             Notification Deadline: Means the applicable deadline for the RA Compliance Showing.

             Operating Parameters: Means the criteria for operating the Facility set forth in Exhibit J.

             Outage Schedule: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.9(a)(i).

             Partial Cycle: Has the meaning set forth in Exhibit J.

             Parties: Buyer and Seller, and their respective successors and permitted assignees.

             Party: Buyer or Seller, and each such Party’s respective successors and permitted assignees.

             Performance Assurance: The collateral provided by a Party to secure that Party’s obligations hereunder
             in accordance with Sections 6.2(b) and 6.3 of this Agreement.

             Permits: All material federal, state or local authorizations, certificates, permits, licenses and approvals
             required by any Governmental Authority for the construction, ownership, operation and maintenance of the
             Facility, including any such permits or approvals required under CEQA or the National Environmental
             Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. Sections 4321 et. seq.

             Permitted Extensions: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3(c).

             Person: An individual, partnership, corporation, business trust, limited liability company, joint stock
             company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, Governmental Authority or other entity.

             Planned Outage: The removal of equipment from service availability for inspection and/or general
             overhaul of one or more major equipment groups. To qualify as a Planned Outage, the maintenance (a)
             must actually be conducted during the Planned Outage, and in Seller’s sole discretion must be of the type
             that is necessary to reliably maintain the Facility, and (b) cannot be reasonably conducted during Facility
             operations.

             PMax: Means the applicable CAISO-certified maximum operating level of the Facility.

             PMin: Means the applicable CAISO-certified minimum operating level of the Facility.

             PNode: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Point of Interconnection or POI: The point on the electrical system where the Facility is physically
             interconnected with the Transmission Provider’s system as further described in the Interconnection
             Agreement.

             Product: Has the meaning set forth in the Cover Sheet.

             Progress Report: A report containing the information set forth in Exhibit F.

             Prudent Operating Practice: Means (a) the applicable practices, methods and acts required by or
             consistent with Applicable Laws and reliability criteria, and otherwise engaged in or approved by a
             significant portion of the electric utility industry during the relevant time period with respect to grid-
             interconnected, utility-scale storage facilities in the Western United States, or (b) any of the practices,

                                                                -12-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             methods and acts which, in light of the facts known at the time the decision was made, could have been
             expected to accomplish the desired result at a reasonable cost consistent with good business practices,
             reliability, safety and expedition. Prudent Operating Practice is not intended to be limited to the optimum
             practice, method or act to the exclusion of all others, but rather to acceptable practices, methods or acts
             generally accepted in the industry with respect to grid-interconnected, utility-scale storage facilities in the
             Western United States. Prudent Operating Practice includes compliance with Applicable Laws, applicable
             reliability criteria, and the criteria, rules and standards promulgated in the National Electric Safety Code
             and the National Electrical Code, as they may be amended or superseded from time to time, including the
             criteria, rules and standards of any successor organizations.

             PTO: Means the Transmission Provider.

             Public Records Laws: The California Public Records Act, California Government Code Sections 6250 et
             seq., and the San Francisco Sunshine Ordinance, San Francisco Administrative Code, Chapter 67, the Ralph
             M. Brown Act, California Government Code Sections 54950, et seq., and any other Applicable Law
             regarding public records as may be amended from time to time.

             Qualifying Capacity: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             RA Compliance Showing: Means the (a) Local RAR compliance or advisory showings (or similar or
             successor showings), (b) RAR compliance or advisory showings (or similar or successor showings), and
             (c) Flexible RAR compliance or advisory showings (or similar successor showings), in each case, an entity
             is required to make to the CAISO pursuant to the CAISO Tariff, to the CPUC (and, to the extent authorized
             by the CPUC, to the CAISO) pursuant to the Resource Adequacy Rulings, or to any Governmental
             Authority.

             RA Deficiency Amount: The liquidated damages payment that Seller shall pay to Buyer for an applicable
             RA Shortfall Month as calculated in accordance with Section 3.3(d)(i).

             RA Guarantee Date: The date by which the Facility is required to achieve Full Capacity Deliverability
             Status, which is seventy-five (75) days after the Commercial Operation Date.

             RA Shortfall Month: Any month, commencing on the RA Guarantee Date, during which (a) the Facility
             has not achieved FCDS or IDS, or (b) the Net Qualifying Capacity of the Facility for such month, was either
             (i) not published by the Notification Deadline, or (ii) was less than the Guaranteed RA Amount.

             RA Shortfall: Has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(d)(i).

             Real-Time Market or RTM: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Reduced RA Quantity: Has the meaning set forth in Section 3.8(d).

             Reliability Coordinator: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Replacement RA: Resource Adequacy provided by Seller to Buyer from a facility other than the Facility
             pursuant to Section 3.3(d)(ii) which has the same flexible attributes and local, zonal, or other locational
             attributes associated with the Facility.

             Resource Adequacy Benefits: The rights and privileges attached to the Facility that satisfy any entity’s
             resource adequacy obligations, as those obligations are set forth in any Resource Adequacy Rulings and



                                                                  -13-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             shall include Flexible Capacity associated with the Facility, and any local, zonal or otherwise locational
             attributes associated with the Facility.

             Resource Adequacy Requirements or RAR: The resource adequacy capacity requirements for load
             serving entities, including LAR and Flexible RAR, established by the Resource Adequacy Rulings.

             Resource Adequacy Rulings: The CPUC’s existing or subsequent decisions, resolutions, or rulings
             addressing resource adequacy issues, or any other resource adequacy laws, rules, or regulations enacted,
             adopted or promulgated by any other Governmental Authority with jurisdiction, as those decisions,
             resolutions, rulings, laws, rules, or regulations may be amended or modified from time-to-time.

             Round Trip Efficiency or RTE Rate: Has the meaning set forth in Exhibit M.

             Schedule: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Scheduling Coordinator or SC: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Self-Schedule: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             Seller: Has the meaning in the Preamble, and any successor or permitted assignee.

             Seller Initiated Test: Has the meaning set forth in Section 5.4(c).

             Seller’s Parent: Means NextEra Energy, Inc., NEP, NEOP, or any combination thereof.

             Settlement Interval: Has the meaning set forth in the CAISO Tariff.

             SFPUC: The San Francisco Public Utilities Commission.

             Showing Month: The calendar month of the Delivery Term that is the subject of the RA Compliance
             Showing, as set forth in the Resource Adequacy Rulings and outlined in the CAISO Tariff.

             Site: The location of the Facility as described on Exhibit B.

             Standard & Poor’s or S&P: Standard & Poor’s Financial Services, LLC (a subsidiary of S&P Global,
             limited liability company).

             State of Charge or SOC: The ratio of the (a) amount of Energy stored in the Facility and available for
             discharging relative to (b) the Storage Contract Capacity multiplied by four (4) hours, expressed as a
             percentage.

             Station Uses: The Energy that is used within the Facility to power the lights, motors, cooling equipment,
             control systems and other electrical loads that are necessary for operation of the Facility except during
             periods in which the Facility is charging or discharging pursuant to a Charging Notice or Discharging
             Notice. Buyer is not responsible for Station Uses.

             Storage Capacity Test or SCT: Any test or retest of the capacity of the Facility conducted in accordance
             with the testing procedures, requirements, and protocols set forth in Section 5.4 and Exhibit K.

             Storage Contract Capacity: The maximum dependable operating capacity of the Facility as measured in
             MW at the Delivery Point, equal to the Guaranteed Installed Capacity, as adjusted from time to time


                                                                 -14-






DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                               that are capable of being satisfied on the COD, other than testing for
                                               Ancillary Services;

                                      (E)      Seller has obtained CAISO Certification for the Facility, other than testing
                                               for Ancillary Services;

                                      (F)      Seller has delivered to Buyer a fully executed Interconnection Agreement
                                               between Seller (or its Affiliate) and the Transmission Provider for the
                                               Facility, which Interconnection Agreement shall be in full force and effect;

                                      (G)      Seller has delivered to Buyer a fully executed Participating Generator
                                               Agreement and Meter Services Agreement between Seller and the CAISO
                                               for the Facility, which Participating Generator Agreement and Meter
                                               Services Agreement shall be in full force and effect;

                                      (H)      Seller has taken all actions and executed all documents required to
                                               authorize Buyer or its designee to act as Scheduling Coordinator for the
                                               Facility and Buyer or its designee is authorized to act as SC;

                                      (I)      Seller has demonstrated satisfaction of all requirements under this
                                               Agreement that commence prior to or as of the Delivery Term, including
                                               payment of all amounts owed to Buyer under this Agreement, if any; and

                                      (J)      Seller has delivered Performance Assurance to Buyer.

                     (c)      The Parties agree that, in order for Buyer to dispatch the Facility as of the Commercial
                              Operation Date, the Parties must perform certain of their Delivery Term obligations in
                              advance of the Commercial Operation Date. The Parties shall cooperate with each other in
                              order for Buyer to be able to dispatch the Facility as of the Commercial Operation Date.

                     (d)      Seller shall complete testing for Ancillary Services within sixty (60) days after the
                              Commercial Operation Date.

             2.3     Extended Delivery Term and Purchase Option. At its sole discretion, Buyer may provide notice
                     to Seller no later than twenty-four (24) months prior to the end of the Delivery Term of its intent
                     to initiate negotiations of a potential agreement that would allow Buyer to (i) extend the Delivery
                     Term (“Extended Delivery Term”), or (ii) purchase the Facility. After Seller’s receipt of such
                     notice, Buyer and Seller shall promptly enter into good faith negotiations on the price and other
                     terms that will apply to any Extended Delivery Term or Facility purchase and sale. If the Parties
                     have not reached agreement on such price and other terms within ninety (90) days after delivery of
                     Buyer’s notice under this Section 2.3 in the case of an Extended Delivery Term, or one-hundred
                     and twenty (120) days in the case of a purchase and sale of the Facility, then neither Party shall
                     have any further obligation to negotiate for an Extended Delivery Term or Facility purchase and
                     sale. Upon termination of the negotiations under this Section 2.3, Seller may enter into negotiations
                     and definitive agreements with one or more third parties for the sale of the Product, the Facility, or
                     any component thereof with respect to the period occurring after the end of the Delivery Term.
                     Notwithstanding the foregoing, the negotiation period set forth in this Section 2.3 is non-exclusive
                     and Seller shall have the right to discuss the post-Delivery Term sale of Product or the Facility with
                     third-parties prior to, during, and after such period.




                                                                  -17-










DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              Applicable Laws after the Execution Date that are in excess of the reasonably anticipated
                              compliance costs as of the Execution Date.

                     (b)      Reimbursement. In the event that the Compliance Costs exceed the Compliance Cost Cap,
                              Buyer shall either reimburse Seller for such Compliance Costs that exceed the Compliance
                              Cost Cap, or excuse Seller from performing those obligations that cause the Compliance
                              Costs to exceed the Compliance Cost Cap. If Buyer agrees to reimburse Seller, Seller shall
                              perform the additional compliance actions and shall include the Compliance Costs in the
                              monthly invoice.

                     (c)      Notice. Seller shall notify Buyer within sixty (60) calendar days after the change in
                              Applicable Law if it anticipates that its Compliance Costs will exceed the Compliance Cost
                              Cap and provide an estimate of the Compliance Costs. Buyer shall notify Seller within
                              ninety (90) calendar days of receipt of the notice whether Buyer (i) agrees to reimburse
                              Seller for the additional costs, or (ii) waives Seller’s performance of such obligations. If
                              Buyer waives such performance obligations, then Seller shall be excused from the
                              obligations in this Agreement that cannot be performed without exceeding the Compliance
                              Cost Cap and any excess costs reimbursed by Buyer, and Buyer shall pay Seller for Product
                              without any reduction imposed due to non-compliance with such excused obligations.

                     (d)      Excused Reduction in Capacity Attributes. If a change in Applicable Laws occurs after the
                              Effective Date that reduces the amount of Qualifying Capacity, Net Qualifying Capacity,
                              Effective Flexible Capacity, or other measure of Capacity Attributes that is available from
                              the Facility for delivery to Buyer hereunder, and provided that either (i) Seller has incurred
                              any applicable Compliance Costs up to the Compliance Cost Cap and notified Buyer of
                              any excess in accordance with this Section 3.8 and Buyer has declined to pay the excess,
                              or (ii) Seller is unable to increase the quantity of Qualifying Capacity, Net Qualifying
                              Capacity, Effective Flexible Capacity, and other Capacity Attributes available from the
                              Facility by incurring Compliance Costs up to or in excess of the Compliance Cost Cap,
                              then Seller’s obligation to deliver Net Qualifying Capacity, Effective Flexible Capacity,
                              and other Capacity Attributes, as applicable, hereunder shall be automatically reduced, and
                              such reduction (“Reduced RA Quantity”) shall be applied in the definition of Guaranteed
                              RA Amount to reduce the Guaranteed RA Amount so as not to penalize or require Seller
                              to pay any RA Shortfall Damages with respect to the Qualifying Capacity, Net Qualifying
                              Capacity, Effective Flexible Capacity, and/or other Capacity Attributes that cannot be
                              supplied due to such change in Applicable Laws.

                                    ARTICLE 4: BILLING, PAYMENT, AND CERTIFICATION

             4.1     Billing and Payment.

                     (a)      Monthly Invoices. Seller shall provide to Buyer no sooner than the tenth (10th) calendar
                              day of each month an invoice for the Product for the prior month, and for other amounts
                              due to or from Seller hereunder. Each invoice shall be in a format reasonably specified by
                              Buyer and shall include data as is reasonably necessary to verify each element of the
                              calculation of the Monthly Payment and other charges or credits as set forth in this
                              Agreement.

                              (i)      The “Monthly Payment” for each month will be an amount equal to the summation
                                       of the following:



                                                                  -22-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                      (A)      the product of: the Contract Price; multiplied by 1,000; multiplied by the
                                               Storage Contract Capacity for that month; and the result of the foregoing
                                               calculation shall be offset and reduced by the amount of any Guaranteed
                                               Storage Availability Liquidated Damages for such month, and by the
                                               Annual Round Trip Efficiency Adjustment when applicable; plus

                                      (B)      credits for any amounts owed from Seller to Buyer under sections 3.3(d)
                                               and 5.6(c); plus

                                      (C)      any other amounts netted against the monthly invoice under Section 4.1(c).

                              (ii)    The Invoice shall include:

                                      (A)      CAISO metering and transaction data sufficient to document and verify
                                               the amounts of Charging Energy and Discharging Energy as measured by
                                               the Facility Meter;

                                      (B)      the amount of Replacement RA delivered to Buyer (if any);

                                      (C)      calculations of any Guaranteed Storage Availability Liquidated Damages,
                                               Annual Round Trip Efficiency Adjustment, and RA Deficiency Amounts
                                               for the month; and

                                      (D)      the calculation of any other amounts due to or from Seller hereunder.

                              (iii)   Buyer shall, and shall cause its Scheduling Coordinator to, provide Seller with all
                                      reasonable access (including, in real time, to the maximum extent reasonably
                                      possible) to any records, including invoices or settlement data from the CAISO,
                                      forecast data and other information, all as may be necessary from time to time for
                                      Seller to prepare and verify the accuracy of all invoices.

                              (iv)    The Parties acknowledge and agree that the calculation of the monthly invoice may
                                      result in payments owed from Seller to Buyer. In the event of a monthly payment
                                      owed by Seller to Buyer, the payment terms set forth in Section 4.1(b) shall apply.

                     (b)      Payment. Unless otherwise specified under this Agreement, all payments shall be due and
                              payable on or before the thirtieth (30th) calendar day after receipt of the invoice or, if such
                              day is not a Business Day, then on the next Business Day. Any amount not paid when due
                              shall be considered late and the Party owing the payment shall pay a Late Payment Fee
                              equal to a daily rate of five dollars and fifty cents ($5.50) per one hundred thousand dollars
                              ($100,000) on the unpaid balance for a maximum period of ninety (90) days after the due
                              date of the payment (“Late Payment Fee”) shall be added to the outstanding amount.

                     (c)      Netting. Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, the Parties shall discharge mutual
                              debts and payment obligations due and owing to each other on the same date through
                              netting, in which case all amounts owed by each Party to the other Party for the purchase
                              and sale of Product during the monthly billing period under this Agreement or otherwise
                              arising out of this Agreement, including any damages set forth in this Agreement, CAISO
                              Charges Invoices, Late Payment Fees, and payments or credits, shall be netted so that only
                              the excess amount remaining due shall be paid by the Party who owes it.



                                                                   -23-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (d)      City Vendor Requirements. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Buyer
                              shall not be deemed to be in default of this Agreement and no Late Payment Fee shall be
                              assessed if an invoice under this Agreement cannot be processed by Buyer due to Seller’s
                              failure to comply with all applicable City requirements for City contractors, including but
                              not limited to certification of vendors under Chapter 12 of the San Francisco
                              Administrative Code, payment of business license fees or taxes, insurance requirements,
                              registration in the City’s vendor payment processing system, or any other current or future
                              City requirement for vendor payment processing. Seller understands and acknowledges
                              that vendor certifications may include annual renewals and additional certification
                              requirements may apply to assignees or changes in ownership or control of Seller.

                     (e)      Disputes and Adjustments of Invoices. A Party may, in good faith, dispute the correctness
                              of any invoice or any adjustment to an invoice, rendered under this Agreement or adjust
                              any invoice for any arithmetic, metering, or computational error within twelve (12) months
                              of the date the invoice, or adjustment to an invoice, was rendered. In the event an invoice
                              or portion thereof, or any other claim or adjustment arising hereunder, is disputed, payment
                              of the undisputed portion of the invoice shall be required to be made when due, with notice
                              of the objection given to the other Party. Any invoice dispute or invoice adjustment shall
                              be in writing and shall state the basis for the dispute or adjustment. Payment of the disputed
                              amount shall not be required until the dispute is resolved. Upon resolution of the dispute,
                              any required payment shall be made within five (5) Business Days of such resolution along
                              with the Late Payment Fee from and including the due date to but excluding the date paid.
                              Inadvertent overpayments shall be returned upon request or deducted by the Buyer from
                              subsequent payments. Any dispute with respect to an invoice is waived unless the other
                              Party is notified in accordance with this Section 4.1(d) within twelve (12) months after the
                              invoice is rendered or any specific adjustment to the invoice is made. If an invoice is not
                              rendered within twelve (12) months after the close of the month during which delivery of
                              Product occurred, the right to payment for such delivery is waived.

                     (f)      CAISO Adjustments. If the CAISO makes any adjustment to any CAISO meter data or
                              applicable market prices for a given time period, the Parties shall share information
                              necessary to revise the monthly invoices pursuant to Section 4.1 and Seller agrees that it
                              shall submit revised monthly invoices covering the entire applicable time period in order
                              to conform fully such adjustments to the meter data. Seller shall submit any such revised
                              invoice no later than thirty (30) days from the date on which the Seller receives such
                              binding adjustment to the meter data.

             4.2     Designated Fund/Limited Obligations.

                     (a)      Auto-Appropriating Designated Fund. Buyer’s payment obligations under this Agreement
                              shall be paid from a SFPUC designated fund that will automatically appropriate
                              CleanPowerSF revenues on an annual basis without further Buyer action and which shall
                              be used solely for CleanPowerSF costs and expenses, including the obligations under this
                              Agreement. Buyer agrees to establish CleanPowerSF rates and charges that are sufficient
                              to maintain revenues necessary to pay its obligations under this Agreement and all of
                              Buyer’s payment obligations under its other contracts for the purchase of energy for
                              CleanPowerSF. Buyer shall provide Seller with reasonable access to account balance
                              information with respect to the SFPUC designated fund upon request during the Delivery
                              Term.




                                                                  -24-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (b)      Limited Obligations. Buyer’s payment obligations are special limited obligations of the
                              Buyer payable solely from the revenues of CleanPowerSF. Buyer’s payment obligations
                              under this Agreement are not a charge upon the revenues or general fund of the SFPUC or
                              the City and County of San Francisco or upon any non-CleanPowerSF moneys or other
                              property of the SFPUC or the City.

             4.3     Guaranteed Maximum Costs.

                     (a)      Controller Certification. The Buyer’s obligations hereunder shall not at any time exceed
                              the amount certified by the Controller for the purpose and period stated in such
                              certification. Except as may be provided by laws governing emergency procedures,
                              officers and employees of Buyer are not authorized to request, and Buyer is not required
                              to reimburse Seller for, commodities or services beyond the agreed upon Agreement scope
                              unless the changed scope is authorized by amendment and approved as required by law.
                              Officers and employees of Buyer are not authorized to offer or promise, nor is Buyer
                              required to honor, any offered or promised additional funding in excess of the maximum
                              amount of funding for which the contract is certified without certification of the additional
                              amount by the Controller. The Controller is not authorized to make payments on any
                              contract for which funds have not been certified as available in the budget or by
                              supplemental appropriation.

                     (b)      Biennial Budget Process. For each City biennial budget cycle during the term of this
                              Agreement, Buyer agrees to take all necessary action to include the Buyer’s payment
                              obligations under this Agreement in its budget submitted to the Board of Supervisors for
                              that budget cycle.

                     ARTICLE 5: FACILITY DEVELOPMENT, OPERATION, AND MAINTENANCE

             5.1     General Obligations. Seller covenants that at its sole cost and expense, unless otherwise
                     specifically stated in this Agreement, it shall:

                     (a)      Records. Keep complete and accurate design, operating, and other records and all other
                              data for the purposes of proper administration of this Agreement, including such records
                              as may be required by any Governmental Authority or Prudent Operating Practice;

                     (b)      Further Development Information. Provide to Buyer such other information regarding the
                              permitting, engineering, testing, construction or operations of the Facility as Buyer may
                              from time to time reasonably request, subject to licensing or other restrictions of Seller or
                              a third party with respect to confidentiality, disclosure or use; provided, nothing herein
                              shall limit Buyer’s right to obtain such information upon agreeing to confidentiality or
                              signing a confidentiality agreement with regard to such information;

                     (c)      Insurance. Obtain and maintain the policies of insurance in the amounts and with the
                              coverages as set forth on Exhibit D;

                     (d)      Vendor Certification. Obtain, renew, and maintain, all City required vendor certifications
                              and requirements during the Term of this Agreement;

                     (e)      Construction. Design, develop, finance, and construct the Facility;




                                                                  -25-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (f)      Prevailing Wages. Pay any person performing labor in the construction of the Facility not
                              less than the prevailing wage rate for the county in which the Facility will be located, as
                              determined by the California Department of Industrial Relations. Seller shall require in
                              any contract related to the construction of the Facility the payment of the prevailing wage
                              rate for the work to be performed. Seller shall provide to Buyer upon request, certified
                              payroll reports with respect to all persons performing labor in the construction of the
                              Facility;

                     (g)      Forced Labor. Not knowingly utilize equipment or resources for the construction, operation
                              or maintenance of the Facility that rely on work or services exacted from any person under
                              the threat of a penalty and for which the person has not offered himself or herself
                              voluntarily (“Forced Labor”); provided that, consistent with the business advisory jointly
                              issued by the U.S. Departments of State, Treasury, Commerce and Homeland Security on
                              July 1, 2020, equipment or resources sourced from the Xinjiang region of China are
                              presumed to involve Forced Labor;

                     (h)      Interconnection and Transmission. Take all necessary actions, including arranging and
                              paying for any and all necessary Electric System Upgrades, obtaining all required
                              regulatory approvals, and executing and maintaining in full force and effect all necessary
                              agreements to allow Seller to interconnect the Facility to the CAISO grid, maintain
                              interconnection capacity and FCDS for the Facility that is no less than the Storage Contract
                              Capacity throughout the Delivery Term, and deliver the Product to the Delivery Point in
                              accordance with this Agreement. Seller shall comply with all applicable requirements,
                              rules, contractual obligations, and Prudent Operating Practice to maintain any
                              Interconnection Facilities and to cause delivery of the Product to Buyer;

                     (i)      Environmental Costs. Be solely responsible for all Environmental Costs; and

                     (j)      Compliance with Laws. Seek, obtain, maintain, and comply with all Applicable Laws,
                              Permits, certificates, agreements, or other authorizations or approvals, which are required
                              for the ownership, construction, operation, and maintenance of the Facility and the delivery
                              and sale of the Product pursuant to this Agreement.

             5.2     Facility Construction and Milestones.

                     (a)      Time is of the Essence. The Parties agree that time is of the essence in the performance of
                              this Agreement. Seller shall diligently pursue to completion each of the following
                              Milestones:

                              (i)     Obtain Final and Unappealable Permits Required for Start of Construction:
                                      August 1, 2024

                              (ii)    Construction Start: December 1, 2024

                              (iii)   Mechanical Completion: May 1, 2025;

                              (iv)    Commercial Operation: June 1, 2025.

                     (b)      Progress Report. Seller shall provide to Buyer a Progress Report concerning the progress
                              towards construction and completion of the each of the Milestones (including whether
                              Seller has met or is on target to meet each of the Milestones), which shall be substantially


                                                                 -26-












DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (g)      Testing Costs and Revenues.

                              (i)     Buyer shall be responsible for all Charging Energy and shall be entitled to all
                                      CAISO revenues associated with a Buyer Dispatched Test.

                              (ii)    Seller shall be responsible for the cost of all Charging Energy for, and shall be
                                      entitled to all CAISO revenues associated with, a Seller Initiated Test or a Facility
                                      Rebalancing Dispatch. In the month following Buyer’s receipt of such CAISO
                                      revenues, costs, and charges, Buyer shall credit or invoice Seller for all applicable
                                      CAISO revenues, costs, and charges received by Buyer and associated with the
                                      Seller Initiated Test or Facility Rebalancing Dispatch in the CAISO Charges
                                      Invoice.

                              (iii)   Except as set forth in Section 5.4(b), all other costs of any testing of the Facility
                                      shall be borne by Seller.

             5.5     Operation and Maintenance.

                     (a)      Operation and Maintenance. Seller shall be solely responsible for the ownership,
                              operation, maintenance, and repair of the Facility in accordance with this Agreement, all
                              Applicable Laws, the requirements of the CAISO, NERC and WECC, all applicable
                              contractual obligations and Permits, and in accordance with Prudent Operating Practice,
                              and shall be solely responsible for all associated costs and expenses.

                              (i)     In the event Seller requires any data or information from Buyer in order to comply
                                      with any Applicable Law, including the requirements of CAISO, NERC and
                                      WECC, relating to the Facility, then Seller shall request in writing such data from
                                      Buyer no less than forty-five (45) days prior to Seller’s requested date of Buyer’s
                                      response; provided that if Seller has less than forty-five (45) calendar days prior
                                      notice of the need for such data, Seller shall request in writing such data from
                                      Buyer as soon as reasonably practicable. Buyer shall make a good faith effort to
                                      provide such data and/or information within the timeframe specified in writing by
                                      Seller or as soon thereafter as reasonably practicable.

                              (ii)    Upon Buyer’s request, Seller shall submit the Facility for additional CAISO
                                      Certification so that the Facility may provide Ancillary Services that the Facility
                                      is, at the relevant time, capable of providing. At Buyer’s request, the Parties shall
                                      cooperate in good faith to agree on necessary alterations to the Facility equipment
                                      or Facility operations in order to allow the Facility to provide additional Ancillary
                                      Services.

                              (iii)   Seller shall maintain a daily operations log for the Facility which shall include but
                                      not be limited to information on Energy charging and discharging, Station Use,
                                      availability, outages, changes in operating status, inspections, and any other
                                      significant events related to the operation of the Facility. Information maintained
                                      pursuant to this Section 5.5(a)(iii) shall be provided to Buyer within fifteen (15)
                                      days of Buyer’s request.

                              (iv)    Seller shall maintain accurate records of all Storage Capacity Tests.




                                                                 -32-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              (v)     Seller shall maintain and make available to Buyer records, including logbooks,
                                      demonstrating that the Facility is operated in accordance with Prudent Operating
                                      Practices. Seller shall comply with all reporting requirements and permit on-site
                                      audits, investigations, tests and inspections permitted or required under any
                                      Prudent Operating Practice.

                     (b)      Maintenance of Health and Safety. Seller shall take reasonable safety precautions with
                              respect to the operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of the Facility, including
                              maintenance of a safety manual at the Facility addressing all hazard and safety
                              requirements and operating procedures. If Seller becomes aware of any circumstances
                              relating to the Facility that create an imminent risk of damage or injury to any Person or
                              any Person’s property, Seller shall take prompt, reasonable action to prevent such damage
                              or injury and shall give Buyer’s emergency contact identified in the Cover Sheet notice of
                              such condition. Such action may include disconnecting and removing all or a portion of
                              the Facility, or suspending the supply of Discharging Energy to the Delivery Point.

                     (c)      Start-ups and Shut-downs. Seller shall coordinate all Facility start-ups and shut-downs, in
                              whole or in part, with Buyer in accordance with CAISO scheduling protocols and the
                              reasonable protocols established by Buyer that are not inconsistent with the CAISO Tariff
                              and CAISO procedures.

                     (d)      Metering.

                              (i)     All Charging Energy and Discharging Energy must be delivered through the
                                      Facility Meter, which shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with applicable
                                      CAISO meter requirements and Prudent Operating Practices, including to account
                                      for Electrical Losses. Each meter shall be kept under seal, such seals to be broken
                                      only when the Facility Meter is to be tested, adjusted, modified or relocated. In the
                                      event Seller breaks a seal, Seller shall notify Buyer as soon as practicable.

                              (ii)    The meter data will account for transformer losses and will be programmed to
                                      reflect Electrical Losses to the Delivery Point, consistent with CAISO
                                      requirements. Seller shall bear all costs relating to all metering equipment installed
                                      to accommodate the Facility. Seller shall grant Buyer (and Buyer’s Scheduling
                                      Coordinator) read-only rights to retrieve all data, including the meter reads, via
                                      website and direct download and directly from the CAISO meter(s) at the Facility
                                      through both (A) physical access and (B) remote electronic read-only access.
                                      Seller shall maintain an updated record of programmed meter parameters (such as
                                      channel configuration and other relevant settings) that is accessible and reasonably
                                      acceptable to Buyer. In addition, Seller shall provide all meter data to Buyer in a
                                      form reasonably acceptable to Buyer, and consents to Buyer obtaining from
                                      CAISO the CAISO meter data directly relating to the Facility and all inspection,
                                      testing and calibration data and reports.

                              (iii)   If Seller has reason to believe there may be a Facility Meter malfunction, or upon
                                      Buyer’s reasonable request, Seller shall test the Facility Meter at its sole cost and
                                      expense. The tests shall be conducted by independent third parties qualified to
                                      conduct such tests. Buyer shall be notified seven (7) days in advance of such tests
                                      and have a right to be present during such tests. If a Facility Meter is inaccurate,
                                      Seller shall promptly repair or replace the meter and submit corrected meter data
                                      in compliance with CAISO requirements. Seller shall be responsible for and shall

                                                                  -33-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                      reimburse Buyer for all CAISO costs, penalties, and charges related to the
                                      inaccuracy of the Facility Meter.

                              (iv)    Upon Buyer’s request, Seller shall take all commercially reasonable actions to
                                      become, as specified by Buyer, either a CAISO Metered Entity or a Scheduling
                                      Coordinator Metered Entity (as those terms are defined in the CAISO Tariff).

                     (e)      Facility Rebalancing Dispatch. Seller shall have the right to charge and discharge the
                              Facility to rebalance the levels of stored energy in the Facility as Seller deems necessary
                              following outages, derates, or other events affecting the Facility (“Facility Rebalancing
                              Dispatch”); provided that: (i) Seller shall provide prior written notice to Buyer for any
                              Facility Rebalancing Dispatch; (ii) Seller shall restore the Facility at the end of any Facility
                              Rebalancing Dispatch to the level of stored energy (but rebalanced among all inverters) as
                              existed prior to the Facility Rebalancing Dispatch; (iii) Seller shall schedule all Facility
                              Rebalancing Dispatch during off-peak hours and in coordination with Buyer’s Scheduling
                              Coordinator to minimize Buyer’s potential loss of revenue; (iv) Seller shall reimburse
                              Buyer for all net CAISO costs incurred by Buyer as a result of the Facility Rebalancing
                              Dispatch; and (v) any hours or partial hours in which Seller conducts a Facility
                              Rebalancing Dispatch shall count toward the total number of hours of “scheduled
                              maintenance (including Planned Outages)” for purposes of calculating the Monthly Storage
                              Availability in Exhibit L. For the avoidance of doubt, should the total number of hours of
                              Facility Rebalancing Dispatches and scheduled maintenance (including Planned Outages),
                              in the aggregate, exceed a maximum of one hundred eighty (180) hours in any Contract
                              Year, the hours of Facility Rebalancing Dispatches and scheduled maintenance (including
                              Planned Outages) in excess of that limit in a Contract Year shall be treated as
                              UNAVAILHRSm for purposes of calculating the Monthly Storage Availability in
                              Exhibit L.

                     (f)      Shared Facilities. The Parties acknowledged and agree that the Facility may share the
                              Interconnection Facilities and other assets, including the Interconnection Agreement and
                              transmission service agreements. Seller agrees that such joint ownership or arrangements
                              shall permit Seller to perform or satisfy, and shall not limit, Seller’s obligations under this
                              Agreement, including Buyer’s ability to discharge the Facility up to the interconnection
                              capacity limit for the Facility and to charge the Facility up to the Storage Contract Capacity,
                              and providing for separate metering of the Facility. At the request of Buyer, the Facility
                              shall have an unique Scheduling Coordinator ID as that term is defined in the CAISO
                              Tariff.

                     (g)      Refurbishment of the Facility. During the Term, Seller may not refurbish the Facility, alter
                              components of the Facility, or replace major components of the Facility where such action
                              results in a total increased capacity higher than the originally defined Guaranteed Installed
                              Capacity (before adjustment pursuant to Section 5.3(j)), without the prior written consent
                              of Buyer. Buyer shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to accept or decline to permit
                              any such refurbishment or alteration that may increase capacity of the Facility above such
                              Guaranteed Installed Capacity. Nothing in this Section 5.5(g) is intended to limit Seller’s
                              ability to refurbish, repair, maintain, or replace any portion of the Facility where such
                              actions will not increase the Facility’s total capacity above such Guaranteed Installed
                              Capacity.




                                                                   -34-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             5.6     Scheduling.

                     (a)      Scheduling Coordinator.

                              (i)     Upon Initial Synchronization, Buyer shall be the Scheduling Coordinator or
                                      designate a qualified third party to provide Scheduling Coordinator services with
                                      the CAISO for the Facility for the delivery and the receipt of Charging Energy,
                                      Discharging Energy, and the Product at the Delivery Point. At least thirty (30) days
                                      prior to Initial Synchronization, (A) Seller shall take all actions and execute and
                                      deliver to Buyer and the CAISO all documents necessary to authorize or designate
                                      Buyer (or Buyer’s designee) as the Scheduling Coordinator for the Facility
                                      effective as of Initial Synchronization, and (B) Buyer shall, and shall cause its
                                      designee to, take all actions and execute and deliver to Seller and the CAISO all
                                      documents necessary to authorize or designate Buyer or its designee as the
                                      Scheduling Coordinator for the Facility effective as of the Initial Synchronization.
                                      On and after Initial Synchronization, Seller shall not authorize or designate any
                                      other party to act as the Facility’s Scheduling Coordinator, nor shall Seller perform
                                      for its own benefit the duties of Scheduling Coordinator, and Seller shall not
                                      revoke Buyer’s authorization to act as the Facility’s Scheduling Coordinator unless
                                      agreed to or directed by Buyer. Buyer or Buyer’s designee shall submit Schedules
                                      to the CAISO in accordance with this Agreement and the CAISO Tariff and
                                      protocols.

                              (ii)    At any time during the Term of this Agreement, Buyer may elect to require Seller
                                      or Seller’s designee to become the Scheduling Coordinator for the Facility. Buyer
                                      shall provide one hundred twenty (120) days’ prior notice to Seller and the Parties
                                      shall promptly enter into good faith negotiations on necessary amendments to this
                                      Agreement to reflect the transfer of Scheduling Coordinator responsibilities to
                                      Seller. The negotiations shall be limited to necessary amendments that are solely
                                      related to the Scheduling Coordinator services for the Facility.

                              (iii)   Buyer shall provide Seller with access to a web-based system through which Seller
                                      shall submit to Buyer and the CAISO all notices and updates required under the
                                      CAISO Tariff regarding the Facility’s status, including, but not limited to, all
                                      outage requests, forced outages, forced outage reports, clearance requests, or must
                                      offer waiver forms. Seller shall cooperate with Buyer to provide such notices and
                                      updates. If the web-based system is not available, Seller shall promptly submit
                                      such information to Buyer and the CAISO both telephonically and by electronic
                                      mail to the personnel designated to receive such information.

                              (iv)    At least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the Delivery Term or the date
                                      that Seller assumes SC services under Section 5.6(a)(ii), or as soon as reasonably
                                      practicable upon an early termination of this Agreement, the Parties will take all
                                      actions necessary to terminate the designation of Buyer as Scheduling Coordinator
                                      for the Facility as of 11:59 p.m. on the designated expiration, termination, or
                                      transfer date.

                              (v)     Prior to the COD, the Parties shall cooperate to develop protocols as necessary to
                                      implement scheduling and settlements procedures consistent with this Agreement
                                      and the CAISO Tariff.



                                                                 -35-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (b)      CAISO Costs and Revenues.

                              (i)     Except as otherwise set forth in this Section 5.6(b), Buyer (as Scheduling
                                      Coordinator for the Facility) shall be responsible for CAISO costs and shall be
                                      entitled to all CAISO revenues or other credits related to the Product Scheduled or
                                      delivered from the Delivery Point.

                              (ii)    Seller shall be responsible for and reimburse Buyer for all CAISO costs, charges,
                                      and penalties resulting from (A) the unavailability of the Facility, (B) Seller’s
                                      default, breach, or other failure to perform as required by this Agreement, (C) any
                                      failure by Seller to abide by the CAISO Tariff, any requirements imposed on it as
                                      Facility owner, or the outage notification requirements set forth in this Agreement,
                                      (D) any failure by Seller to comply with a Curtailment Order, CAISO Dispatch, or
                                      Dispatch Instruction, (E) Facility Meter inaccuracies, (F) penalties related to non-
                                      performance with respect to Ancillary Services and Residual Unit Commitment
                                      (as defined in the CAISO Tariff) awards due to conditions within Seller’s control,
                                      and (G) costs associated with deviations from the amounts included in a
                                      Discharging Notice and the actual RTM Discharging Energy; provided, however,
                                      that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Seller shall not be responsible
                                      for and shall not be required to reimburse Buyer for any CAISO costs, charges,
                                      penalties, or other amounts that are incurred due to Buyer’s or its Scheduling
                                      Coordinator’s failure to perform their duties as Scheduling Coordinator for the
                                      Facility, failure to comply with the CAISO Tariff or this Agreement, or failure to
                                      submit timely notices or instructions to Seller; provided, further that Buyer shall
                                      use reasonable efforts to mitigate any CAISO costs, charges, penalties, or other
                                      amounts. In addition, if during the Delivery Term, the CAISO implements or has
                                      implemented any sanction or penalty related to scheduling, outage reporting, or
                                      generator operation, and any such sanctions or penalties are imposed upon the
                                      Facility or to Buyer as Scheduling Coordinator due to failure by Seller to abide by
                                      the CAISO Tariff or the outage notification requirements set forth in this
                                      Agreement, the cost of the sanctions or penalties shall be Seller’s responsibility.

                              (iii)   Seller shall be entitled to any Availability Incentive Payments (as defined in the
                                      CAISO Tariff) and shall be responsible for any Non-Availability Charges (as
                                      defined in the CAISO Tariff).

                              (iv)    Each Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate with the other
                                      Party to allow that Party to comply with any obligations, and minimize any
                                      potential liability, it may have under the CAISO Tariff in relation to Product under
                                      this Agreement.

                     (c)      CAISO Settlements. Buyer (as the Facility’s SC) shall be responsible for all settlement
                              functions with the CAISO related to the Facility. Buyer shall render a separate invoice to
                              Seller for any CAISO payments, charges or penalties (“CAISO Charges Invoice”) for
                              which Seller is responsible under this Agreement. CAISO Charges Invoices shall be
                              rendered after settlement information becomes available from the CAISO that identifies
                              any CAISO charges. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller acknowledges that the CAISO
                              will issue additional invoices reflecting CAISO adjustments to such CAISO charges. Buyer
                              shall review, validate, and if requested by Seller under paragraph (e) below, dispute any
                              charges that are the responsibility of Seller in a timely manner and consistent with Buyer’s
                              existing settlement processes for charges that are Buyer’s responsibilities. Subject to

                                                                 -36-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              Seller’s right to dispute and to have Buyer pursue the dispute of any such invoices, Seller
                              shall pay the amount of CAISO Charges Invoices within ten (10) Business Days of Seller’s
                              receipt of the CAISO Charges Invoice. If Seller fails to pay such CAISO Charges Invoice
                              within that period, Buyer may net or offset any amounts owing to it for such CAISO
                              Charges Invoices against any future amounts it may owe to Seller under this Agreement.
                              The obligations under this Section with respect to payment of CAISO Charges Invoices
                              shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

                     (d)      CAISO Charges Disputes. Seller may require Buyer (as the Facility’s SC) to dispute
                              CAISO settlements related to any costs or revenues for which Seller is responsible under
                              this Agreement. Seller agrees to pay Buyer’s costs and expenses (including reasonable
                              attorneys’ fees) associated with CAISO charges that Seller has directed Buyer to dispute.

                     (e)      Master File. Seller shall provide the data to the CAISO (and to Buyer) that is required for
                              the CAISO’s Master File (or successor data systems) for the Facility consistent with this
                              Agreement. Neither Party shall change such data without the other Party’s prior written
                              consent.

                     (f)      Seller Equipment for Operating Instruction Communications. Seller shall acquire, install,
                              and maintain such facilities, communications links and other equipment, and implement
                              such protocols and practices, as necessary to respond to and follow operating instructions
                              from the CAISO and Buyer’s SC.

             5.7     Energy Management.

                     (a)      Charging Generally. Upon receipt of a Charging Notice, Seller shall take any and all action
                              necessary to deliver the Charging Energy to the Facility in order to deliver the Product in
                              accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Except as otherwise expressly set forth in
                              this Agreement, Buyer shall be responsible for paying all CAISO costs and charges
                              associated with Charging Energy.

                     (b)      Charging and Discharging Notices. Buyer shall have the right to charge and discharge the
                              Facility seven (7) days per week and twenty-four (24) hours per day (including holidays),
                              by issuing Charging Notices and Discharging Notices to Seller, subject to the requirements
                              and limitations set forth in this Agreement, including the Operating Parameters and Seller’s
                              rights to conduct Seller Initiated Tests and Facility Rebalancing Dispatches. Each Charging
                              Notice or Discharging Notice issued in accordance with this Agreement will be effective
                              unless and until Buyer’s SC or CAISO modifies such Charging Notice or Discharging
                              Notice by providing Seller with an updated Charging Notice or Discharging Notice, as the
                              case may be.

                     (c)      No Unauthorized Charging. Seller shall not charge the Facility during the Delivery Term
                              other than pursuant to a valid Charging Notice or in connection with a Seller Initiated Test
                              or Facility Rebalancing Dispatch. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller may adjust a
                              Charging Notice to the extent necessary to comply with the Operating Parameters, in
                              connection with a Storage Capacity Test or Facility Rebalancing Dispatch, or pursuant to
                              a notice from the CAISO, Transmission Provider, or any other applicable Governmental
                              Authority. Seller shall comply with all Charging Notices, subject to the requirements and
                              limitations set forth in this Agreement. If, during the Delivery Term, Seller charges the
                              Facility (i) to a Stored Energy Level greater than the Stored Energy Level provided for in
                              a Charging Notice, or (ii) in violation of the first sentence of this Section 5.7(c), then (x)

                                                                  -37-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              Seller shall be responsible for all excess Energy costs associated with such charging of the
                              Facility above such Stored Energy Level or caused by such violation, (y) Buyer shall not
                              be required to pay for such Energy that is Seller’s responsibility as specified in the
                              preceding clause (x), and (z) Buyer shall be entitled to discharge such Energy and entitled
                              to all of the benefits (including Product) associated with such discharge.

                     (d)      No Unauthorized Discharging. Seller shall not discharge the Facility during the Delivery
                              Term other than pursuant to a valid Discharging Notice or in connection with a Seller
                              Initiated Test or Facility Rebalancing Dispatch. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller may
                              adjust a Discharging Notice to the extent necessary to comply with the Operating
                              Parameters, in connection with a Storage Capacity Test or Facility Rebalancing Dispatch,
                              or pursuant to a notice from the CAISO, Transmission Provider, or any other Governmental
                              Authority.

                     (e)      Unauthorized Charges and Discharges. Any charges, discharges or use of the Facility that
                              is not in accordance with this Agreement shall be a breach by Seller and Seller shall hold
                              Buyer harmless from, and indemnify Buyer against, all actual costs or losses associated
                              with, and shall be responsible to Buyer for any damages arising from, such unauthorized
                              use. If Seller fails to implement procedures reasonably acceptable to Buyer to prevent any
                              further occurrences of the same, then the failure to implement such procedures shall be an
                              Event of Default under Article 8.

                     (f)      CAISO Dispatches. During the Delivery Term, CAISO Dispatches shall have priority over
                              any Charging Notice or Discharging Notice issued by Buyer or Buyer’s SC, and Seller
                              shall comply with any CAISO Dispatch. If the Facility deviates from a CAISO Dispatch,
                              Seller shall be responsible for all CAISO charges and penalties resulting from such
                              deviation (in addition to any Buyer remedy related to overcharging of the Facility as set
                              forth in Section 5.7(c)).

                     (g)      Pre-Commercial Operation Date Period. Prior to the Commercial Operation Date, Buyer
                              shall have no right to charge or discharge the Facility and Seller shall only charge and
                              discharge the Facility in connection with installation, commissioning and testing of the
                              Facility.

                     (h)      Curtailments. Seller shall reduce Discharging Energy as directed by the Reliability
                              Coordinator, CAISO, Transmission Provider, or any successor thereto pursuant to a
                              Curtailment Order. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, during
                              any Settlement Interval, Curtailment Orders applicable to such Settlement Interval shall
                              have priority over any Dispatch Notices applicable to such Settlement Interval, and Seller
                              shall not be in violation of this Section 5.7 or any Dispatch Notice, and shall not be required
                              to pay amounts owed hereunder for deviations from Dispatch Notices, if and to the extent
                              the deviation is caused by Seller’s compliance with any Curtailment Order or other
                              instruction or direction from a Governmental Authority or the Transmission Provider.
                              Buyer shall have the right, but not the obligation, to provide Seller with updated Dispatch
                              Notices during any Curtailment Order consistent with the Operating Parameters.

             5.8     Capacity Availability Notice.

                     (a)      Monthly Forecast. No less than thirty (30) days before the beginning of Commercial
                              Operation, and thereafter ten (10) Business Days before the beginning of each month
                              during the Delivery Term, Seller shall provide to Buyer and Buyer’s SC a non-binding

                                                                  -38-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              forecast of the hourly expected Available Capacity, for each day of the following month
                              (“Monthly Forecast”).

                     (b)      Availability Notice. During the Delivery Term, no later than two (2) Business Days before
                              each schedule day for the Day-Ahead Market in accordance with WECC scheduling
                              practices, Seller shall provide Buyer and Buyer’s SC an hourly schedule of the Available
                              Capacity that the Facility is expected to have for each hour of the day (“Availability
                              Notice”). Seller shall provide Availability Notices (including updated Availability Notices)
                              in a form as reasonably requested by Buyer, by electronic mail to Buyer and Buyer’s SC.

                     (c)      Updates. Seller shall notify Buyer and the SC (if applicable) immediately with an updated
                              Monthly Forecast and Availability Notice, as applicable, if the Available Capacity of the
                              Facility changes or is expected to change after Buyer’s receipt of a Monthly Forecast or
                              Availability Notice. Seller shall accommodate Buyer’s reasonable requests for changes in
                              the time of delivery of Availability Notices.

             5.9     Outages.

                     (a)      Planned Outages.

                              (i)     No later than January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15 of each Contract Year,
                                      and at least sixty (60) days prior to the Guaranteed Commercial Operation Date,
                                      Seller shall submit to Buyer the schedule of proposed Planned Outages (“Outage
                                      Schedule”) for the following twelve (12) month period in a form reasonably
                                      specified by Buyer. Within twenty (20) Business Days after its receipt of an Outage
                                      Schedule, Buyer shall give notice to Seller of any request for changes to the Outage
                                      Schedule, and Seller shall, consistent with Prudent Operating Practices,
                                      accommodate Buyer’s requests regarding the timing of any Planned Outage. Seller
                                      shall deliver to Buyer the final Outage Schedule no later than five (5) days after
                                      receiving Buyer’s comments.

                              (ii)    Seller shall not schedule Planned Outages during the period of reliability
                                      accounting, initially the period between June 1st and October 31 of each year;
                                      however, such period shall be subject to changes at Buyer’s discretion in order to
                                      conform to the CAISO’s availability assessment procedures. In the event that
                                      Seller has a previously Planned Outage that becomes coincident with a System
                                      Emergency, Seller shall make all reasonable efforts to reschedule such Planned
                                      Outage.

                              (iii)   If replacement capacity is required by the CAISO for the period of any Planned
                                      Outage, Seller shall provide the required replacement capacity in the amount and
                                      for the duration specified by the CAISO pursuant to the CAISO Tariff.

                              (iv)    If reasonably required in accordance with Prudent Operating Practices, Seller shall
                                      have the right, on no less than sixty (60) days advance notice to Buyer, to propose
                                      changes to the Outage Schedule. Buyer may provide comments no later than ten
                                      (10) days after receiving Seller’s notice of proposed changes to the Outage
                                      Schedule and Buyer shall permit any changes if doing so would not have a material
                                      adverse impact on Buyer and Seller agrees to reimburse Buyer for any costs and
                                      charges associated with such changes.



                                                                 -39-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (b)      Forced Outages. Seller shall notify Buyer by telephoning Buyer’s Scheduling Coordinator
                              as soon as reasonably possible but no later than ten (10) minutes following the occurrence
                              of a Forced Outage, or if Seller has knowledge that a Forced Outage will occur, within
                              twenty (20) minutes of determining that such Forced Outage will occur. Seller shall relay
                              outage information to Buyer as required by the CAISO Tariff within twenty (20) minutes
                              of the Forced Outage. Seller shall communicate to Buyer the estimated time of return of
                              the Facility as soon as practical. Seller shall promptly prepare and provide to Buyer, all
                              reports of Forced Outages or Planned Outages that Buyer may reasonably require for the
                              purpose of enabling Buyer to comply with CAISO requirements or any Applicable Laws.

                            ARTICLE 6: DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE ASSURANCE

             6.1     Grant of Security Interests/Remedies.

                     (a)      First Priority Security Interest. To secure its obligations under this Agreement hereunder,
                              each Party hereby grants to the other Party, as the secured party, a first priority security
                              interest in, and lien on (and right of setoff against), and assignment of, all such
                              Development Assurance and Performance Assurance posted with Buyer by Seller, and all
                              Performance Assurance posted with Seller by Buyer, in the form of cash collateral or cash
                              equivalent collateral and any and all proceeds resulting therefrom or the liquidation thereof,
                              whether now or hereafter held by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of, Buyer. Within thirty
                              (30) calendar days of the delivery of the Development Assurance or Performance
                              Assurance, as applicable, the delivering Party agrees to take such action as the receiving
                              Party reasonably requires in order to perfect a first-priority security interest in, and lien on
                              (and right of setoff against), such Development Assurance or Performance Assurance as
                              applicable, and any and all proceeds resulting therefrom or from the liquidation thereof,
                              respectively.

                     (b)      Rights and Remedies. Upon or any time after the occurrence and during the continuation
                              of an Event of Default by a Party or an Early Termination Date or the occurrence of any
                              event under this Agreement where Buyer is entitled to draw upon the Development
                              Assurance or Performance Assurance, or where Seller is entitled to draw on the
                              Performance Assurance posted by Buyer, Buyer or Seller, as applicable, may do any one
                              or more of the following:

                              (i)     exercise any of the rights and remedies of a secured party with respect to all
                                      Development Assurance or Performance Assurance, as applicable, including any
                                      such rights and remedies under Applicable Law;

                              (ii)    draw on any outstanding Letter of Credit issued for its benefit and retain any cash
                                      held by Buyer as Development Assurance or Performance Assurance; and

                              (iii)   liquidate all Development Assurance or Performance Assurance, as applicable,
                                      then held by or for the benefit of such Party free from any claim or right of any
                                      nature whatsoever of the other Party, including any equity or right of purchase or
                                      redemption by such other Party, subject to the first Party’s obligation to return any
                                      surplus proceeds remaining after such other Party’s obligations hereunder to such
                                      first Party are satisfied in full.

                     (c)      Application of Proceeds. Each Party shall apply the proceeds of the collateral realized
                              upon the exercise of any such rights or remedies to reduce the other Party’s obligations

                                                                   -40-






DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                      Buyer Performance Assurance within thirty (30) days of the date that Seller
                                      provides notice to Buyer that it has met the Buyer Financial Covenants.

                     (b)      Seller shall be entitled to draw upon the Performance Assurance posted by Buyer for any
                              reason permitted under this Agreement, including Seller’s declaration of an Early
                              Termination Date after the Commercial Operation Date.

                     (c)      Buyer shall maintain Performance Assurance until the following have occurred: (a) the
                              Delivery Term has expired or terminated early; and (b) all payment obligations of Buyer
                              due and payable under this Agreement are paid in full, including compensation for the
                              Termination Payment, indemnification payments, or other damages (whether directly or
                              indirectly such as through set-off or netting). Following the occurrence of both events,
                              Seller shall promptly return to Buyer the unused portion of the Performance Assurance.

                     (d)      No Limitation of Damages. The amount of Buyer Performance Assurance required under
                              this Agreement shall not be deemed a limitation of damages.

                     (e)      Use of Buyer Performance Assurance. Seller shall be entitled to draw upon the Buyer
                              Performance Assurance posted by Buyer for any reason permitted under this Agreement,
                              including Seller’s declaration of an Early Termination Date.

                     (f)      For the avoidance of doubt, Buyer shall not be required to post Development Assurance or
                              any other form of security prior to COD.

             6.4     Letter of Credit. Development Assurance or Performance Assurance provided in the form of a
                     Letter of Credit shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit H-1, or another form
                     reasonably acceptable to the Party to whom the obligation is owed, subject to the following
                     provisions:

                     (a)      Renewal of Letter of Credit. If either Party has provided a Letter of Credit pursuant to any
                              of the applicable provisions in this Article 6, then such Party shall renew or cause the
                              renewal of each outstanding Letter of Credit on a timely basis.

                     (b)      Failure of Letter of Credit and Cure. In the event the issuer of such Letter of Credit at any
                              time: fails to maintain the requirements of an Eligible LC Bank or Letter of Credit, becomes
                              Bankrupt, indicates its intent not to renew such Letter of Credit, or fails to honor the
                              beneficiary Party’s properly documented request to draw on such Letter of Credit, the
                              posting Party shall cure such occurrence by complying with either (i) or (ii) below in an
                              amount equal to the outstanding Letter of Credit, and by completing the action within ten
                              (10) Business Days after the date of the beneficiary Party’s notice to the posting Party of
                              an occurrence listed in this subsection (the posting Party’s compliance with either (i) or (ii)
                              below is considered the “Cure”):

                              (i)     providing a substitute Letter of Credit that is issued by an Eligible LC Bank other
                                      than the bank which is the subject of the beneficiary Party’s notice to the posting
                                      Party in this Section 6.4(b); or

                              (ii)    posting cash.

                     (c)      Failure to Cure. If the posting Party fails to cure, or if such Letter of Credit expires or
                              terminates without a full draw thereon by the beneficiary Party or fails or ceases to be in


                                                                  -43-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              full force and effect at any time that such Letter of Credit is required pursuant to the terms
                              of this Agreement, then the posting Party shall be deemed to have failed to meet the
                              collateral requirements of Section 6.2 or Section 6.3, as applicable, and the beneficiary
                              Party may declare an Event of Default as set forth in Article 8.

                     (d)      Letter of Credit Costs. In all cases, the costs and expenses of establishing, renewing,
                              substituting, canceling, increasing, reducing, or otherwise administering the Letter of
                              Credit shall be borne by the Party that is obligated to post the Letter of Credit.

                                                 ARTICLE 7: FORCE MAJEURE

             7.1     Remedial Action. Subject to the limitation on extensions of Milestones set forth in Section 5.3(e),
                     a Claiming Party shall not be liable to the other Party if the Claiming Party is delayed or prevented
                     from performing its obligations hereunder due to a Force Majeure Event. The Claiming Party shall
                     take all action necessary to remove such inability with all due speed and diligence. The Claiming
                     Party shall be prompt and diligent in attempting to mitigate the effects of and to remove the cause
                     of its failure to perform, and nothing herein shall be construed as permitting the Claiming Party to
                     continue to fail to perform after said cause has been removed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
                     existence of a Force Majeure Event shall not excuse any Party from its obligations to make payment
                     of amounts due hereunder.

             7.2     Notice. In the event of any delay or nonperformance resulting from a Force Majeure Event, the
                     Claiming Party shall, as soon as practicable under the circumstances, notify the other Party, in
                     writing, of the nature, cause, date of commencement, and the anticipated extent of any delay or
                     interruption in performance. The Claiming Party’s failure to give timely notice shall not affect the
                     Claiming Party’s ability to assert that a Force Majeure Event has occurred unless the delay in giving
                     notice materially prejudices the other Party.

             7.3     Termination Due to Force Majeure Event. Subject to the provisions of Section 5.3(e) on
                     extensions of Milestones, if the Claiming Party is prevented in any material respect from
                     performing any material obligations under this Agreement solely due to a Force Majeure Event
                     lasting for a period of three (3) consecutive months or longer, either Party may terminate this
                     Agreement, without liability of either Party to the other, upon thirty (30) calendar days’ prior
                     written notice at any time following expiration of such period of twelve (12) consecutive months.
                     In such event, Buyer shall promptly return to Seller all Development Assurance or Performance
                     Assurance, as applicable, less any damages due and payable by Seller prior to the date of such
                     termination for reasons unrelated to this Section 7.3. This Section 7.3 shall not affect the rights
                     and remedies associated with any other termination rights set forth in this Agreement.

                                    ARTICLE 8: DEFAULT, REMEDIES, AND TERMINATION

             8.1     Events of Default.

                     (a)      Events of Default. The occurrence of any of the following shall constitute an Event of
                              Default by a Party:

                              (i)      the breach of any material obligation or covenant of this Agreement that is not the
                                       subject of a separate Event of Default herein, and such Party fails to cure such
                                       breach within sixty (60) days after written notification of default by the other Party;
                                       provided, however, that the Parties may mutually agree upon a longer period for
                                       cure if the breach cannot reasonably be cured within sixty (60) days, provided,


                                                                   -44-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                      further that the extended cure period will only continue for so long as the Party in
                                      breach is pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence;

                              (ii)    subject to Sections 4.1(d) and 4.1(e), failure to make any payment when due under
                                      this Agreement within fifteen (15) Business Days after written notice that such
                                      payment is due;

                              (iii)   any representation or warranty made by such Party herein is false or misleading in
                                      any material respect when made or when deemed made or repeated, and neither
                                      such circumstance nor the adverse effects of such circumstance are cured or
                                      remedied within thirty (30) days after written notice;

                              (iv)    such Party becomes Bankrupt;

                              (v)     subject to Section 11.1(d), such Party consolidates or amalgamates with, or merges
                                      with or into, or transfers all or substantially all of its assets to, another entity and,
                                      at the time of such consolidation, amalgamation, merger or transfer, the resulting,
                                      surviving or transferee entity fails to assume all the obligations of such Party under
                                      this Agreement to which it or its predecessor was a party by operation of law or
                                      pursuant to an agreement reasonably satisfactory to the other Party; or

                              (vi)    either Party fails to satisfy any of the credit requirements of Article 6 if not cured
                                      within ten (10) Business Days after notice thereof;.

                     (b)      Seller Events of Default. The following shall constitute additional Events of Default by
                              Seller:

                              (i)     The occurrence and continuation of any of the events set forth in Section 5.3(h)
                                      beyond all applicable cure periods;

                              (ii)    except to the extent excused by any Force Majeure Event, Seller fails to maintain
                                      an average Storage Contract Capacity equal to at least seventy-five percent (75%)
                                      of the Guaranteed Installed Capacity over any two (2) consecutive Contract Years
                                      during the Delivery Term;

                              (iii)   Seller fails to maintain an average Monthly Storage Availability of at least sixty
                                      percent (60%) over two (2) consecutive Contract Years; or

                              (iv)    with respect to any Guaranty provided for the benefit of Buyer, the failure by Seller
                                      to provide for the benefit of Buyer either (1) cash, (2) a replacement Guaranty from
                                      a different Guarantor meeting the criteria set forth in the definition of Guarantor,
                                      or (3) a replacement Letter of Credit from an issuer meeting the criteria set forth
                                      in the definition of Letter of Credit, in each case, in the amount required hereunder
                                      within ten (10) Business Days after Seller receives Notice of the occurrence of any
                                      of the following events:

                                      (A)      if any representation or warranty made by the Guarantor in connection
                                               with this Agreement is false or misleading in any material respect when
                                               made or when deemed made or repeated, and such default is not remedied
                                               within thirty (30) days after notice thereof;



                                                                   -45-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                      (B)      the failure of the Guarantor to make any payment required or to perform
                                               any other material covenant or obligation in any Guaranty;

                                      (C)      the Guarantor becomes Bankrupt;

                                      (D)      the Guarantor shall fail to meet the criteria for an acceptable Guarantor as
                                               set forth in the definition of Guarantor;

                                      (E)      the failure of the Guaranty to be in full force and effect (other than in
                                               accordance with its terms) prior to the indefeasible satisfaction of all
                                               obligations of Seller hereunder; or

                                      (F)      the Guarantor shall repudiate, disaffirm, disclaim, or reject, in whole or in
                                               part, or challenge the validity of any Guaranty.

             8.2     Termination for Default.

                     (a)      Declaration of Early Termination Date. If an Event of Default has occurred, is continuing
                              and has not been cured, the non-defaulting Party (the “Non-Defaulting Party”) shall have
                              the right to:

                              (i)     send notice, designating a day, no earlier than ten (10) calendar days and no later
                                      than sixty (60) calendar days after the day such notice is deemed to be received, as
                                      the date on which this Agreement will terminate (the “Early Termination Date”);

                              (ii)    accelerate all amounts owing between the Parties, terminate this Agreement and
                                      end the Delivery Term effective as of the Early Termination Date;

                              (iii)   collect as of the Early Termination Date, (A) the Damage Payment in the case of
                                      an Event of Default arising at any time prior to the Commercial Operation Date,
                                      including an Event of Default pursuant to Section 8.1, or (B) the Termination
                                      Payment in the case of an Event of Default arising after the Commercial Operation
                                      Date;

                              (iv)    withhold any payments due to the Defaulting Party under this Agreement;

                              (v)     suspend performance;

                              (vi)    exercise its rights pursuant to Article 6 of this Agreement to draw upon and retain
                                      Development Assurance or Performance Assurance, as applicable; and

                              (vii)   exercise any other right or remedy available at law or in equity to the extent
                                      otherwise permitted under this Agreement.

                     (b)      Calculation of Damage Payment. If the Early Termination Date occurs prior to the
                              Commercial Operation Date, then the Damage Payment shall be calculated in accordance
                              with this Section 8.2(b).

                              (i)     If Seller is the Defaulting Party, the Damage Payment owed to Buyer shall equal
                                      the entire Development Assurance amount and any accrued interest. Buyer shall
                                      be entitled to retain for its own benefit those funds held as Development Assurance


                                                                  -46-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                      and any accrued interest, and any amount of Development Assurance that Seller
                                      has not yet posted with Buyer shall be immediately due and payable by Seller to
                                      Buyer. There will be no amounts owed to Seller. The Parties agree that Buyer’s
                                      damages in the event of an Early Termination Date prior to the Commercial
                                      Operation Date caused by Seller’s default would be difficult or impossible to
                                      determine with certainty and that the damages set forth in this Section 8.2(b)(i) are
                                      a reasonable approximation of Buyer’s harm or loss.

                              (ii)    If Buyer is the Defaulting Party, then the Damage Payment shall be owed to Seller
                                      and shall equal the sum of all actual, documented, and verifiable costs incurred by
                                      Seller between the Effective Date and the Early Termination Date in connection
                                      with the Facility less the fair market value (determined in a commercially
                                      reasonable manner) of the entire Facility on the Early Termination Date, regardless
                                      of whether or not the entire Facility is actually sold or disposed of. There will be
                                      no amount owed to Buyer.

                     (c)      Calculation of Termination Payment. If the Early Termination Date occurs on or after to
                              the Commercial Operation Date, the Termination Payment shall be calculated by the Non-
                              Defaulting Party as follows:

                              (i)     The Non-Defaulting Party shall calculate, in a commercially reasonable manner, a
                                      Termination Payment as of the Early Termination Date.

                              (ii)    If the Non-Defaulting Party’s aggregate Gains exceed its aggregate Economic
                                      Losses and Costs, if any, resulting from such termination of this Agreement, the
                                      amount of the Termination Payment shall be limited to the amounts set forth in
                                      clause (b) of the definition of Termination Payment.

                              (iii)   The Non-Defaulting Party is not required to enter into replacement transactions to
                                      establish a Termination Payment.

                              (iv)    The Termination Payment shall not include consequential, incidental, punitive,
                                      exemplary, indirect, or business interruption damages.

                     (d)      Notice of Damage Payment or Termination Payment. As soon as practicable after
                              declaration of an Early Termination Date, the Non-Defaulting Party shall give notice to the
                              Defaulting Party of the amount of the Damage Payment or Termination Payment due to or
                              from the Defaulting Party to the Non-Defaulting Party, as applicable. The notice shall
                              include a written statement explaining in reasonable detail the calculation of such amount
                              and the sources for such calculation. The Damage Payment or Termination Payment shall
                              be made to the Non-Defaulting Party fifteen (15) Business Days after such termination
                              payment notice is effective.

                     (e)      Disputes Regarding Damage Payment or Termination Payment. If the Defaulting Party
                              disputes the Non-Defaulting Party’s calculation of the Damage Payment or Termination
                              Payment, in whole or in part, the Defaulting Party shall, within fifteen (15) Business Days
                              of receipt of the Non-Defaulting Party’s calculation of the Damage Payment or
                              Termination Payment, provide to the Non- Defaulting Party a detailed written explanation
                              of the basis for such dispute. Following delivery of such a notice, disputes regarding the
                              Damage Payment or Termination Payment shall be resolved in accordance with Section
                              11.3.

                                                                 -47-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (f)      Rights and Remedies are Cumulative. Except where this Agreement explicitly states that
                              liquidated damages or another remedy is the exclusive remedy, the rights and remedies in
                              this Agreement, including this Article 8, are cumulative.

                     (g)      Mitigation. The Non-Defaulting Party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to
                              mitigate its Costs, Economic Losses, and damages resulting from any Event of Default.

             8.3     Limitation of Liability/Liquidated Damages.

                     (a)      THERE IS NO WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
                              PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND ANY AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES ARE
                              DISCLAIMED.

                     (b)      THE PARTIES CONFIRM THAT THE EXPRESS REMEDIES AND MEASURES
                              OF DAMAGES PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT SATISFY THE ESSENTIAL
                              PURPOSES HEREOF. FOR BREACH OF ANY PROVISION FOR WHICH AN
                              EXPRESS REMEDY OR MEASURE OF DAMAGES IS PROVIDED, SUCH
                              EXPRESS REMEDY OR MEASURE OF DAMAGES SHALL BE THE SOLE AND
                              EXCLUSIVE REMEDY, THE OBLIGOR’S LIABILITY SHALL BE LIMITED AS
                              SET FORTH IN SUCH PROVISION AND ALL OTHER REMEDIES OR
                              DAMAGES AT LAW OR IN EQUITY ARE WAIVED, UNLESS THE PROVISION
                              PROVIDES THAT THE EXPRESS REMEDIES ARE IN ADDITION TO OTHER
                              REMEDIES THAT MAY BE AVAILABLE. IF NO REMEDY OR MEASURE OF
                              DAMAGES IS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED HEREIN, THE OBLIGOR’S LIABILITY
                              SHALL BE LIMITED TO DIRECT ACTUAL DAMAGES ONLY, SUCH DIRECT
                              ACTUAL DAMAGES SHALL BE THE SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY AND
                              ALL SUCH OTHER REMEDIES OR DAMAGES AT LAW OR IN EQUITY ARE
                              WAIVED UNLESS EXPRESSLY HEREIN PROVIDED. NEITHER PARTY
                              SHALL BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT FOR
                              ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY OR
                              CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, LOSS
                              OF USE, LOSS OF REVENUES, LOSS OF PROFIT, OR OTHER BUSINESS
                              INTERRUPTION DAMAGES, INTEREST CHARGES, OR COST OF CAPITAL,
                              BY STATUTE, IN TORT OR CONTRACT, UNDER ANY INDEMNITY
                              PROVISION, OR OTHERWISE; PROVIDED HOWEVER, NOTHING IN THIS
                              SECTION SHALL AFFECT THE ENFORCEABILITY OF THE PROVISIONS OF
                              THIS AGREEMENT RELATING TO EXPRESS REMEDIES OR MEASURE OF
                              DAMAGES. THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT TO THE
                              EXTENT THAT ANY DAMAGES SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT ARE
                              LIQUIDATED, INCLUDING PAYMENTS SET FORTH IN SECTIONS 3.3, 3.6, 5.3,
                              5.6, and 8.2, SUCH DAMAGES ARE EACH REASONABLE AND REPRESENT A
                              FAIR AND GENUINE ESTIMATE OF THE HARM OR LOSS THAT WOULD
                              OCCUR RELATED TO THE EVENTS DESCRIBED THEREIN. THE PARTIES
                              ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT THE DAMAGES FOR THE
                              CIRCUMSTANCES SET FORTH ABOVE WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE OR
                              DIFFICULT TO MEASURE, OR OTHERWISE OBTAINING AN ADEQUATE
                              REMEDY IS IMPRACTICABLE. THE PARTIES FURTHER AGREE THAT
                              PAYMENT OF SUCH AMOUNTS SHALL BE AS AND FOR LIQUIDATED
                              DAMAGES AND NOT AS A PENALTY AND ARE THEREFORE NOT SUBJECT
                              TO AVOIDANCE UNDER CALIFORNIA CIVIL CODE SECTION 1671 AND


                                                                -48-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              THE PARTIES HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO CONTEST SUCH PAYMENTS
                              AS AN UNREASONABLE PENALTY.

                     (c)      BUYER’S PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE
                              LIMITED TO THE PAYMENT OF THE COMPENSATION PROVIDED UNDER
                              THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
                              COMPENSATION PROVIDED FOR IN ARTICLE 3, ARTICLE 4, AND
                              SECTIONS 5.6, 8.2 AND 9.2.

                     (d)      EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED HEREIN, THE RIGHTS AND
                              REMEDIES OF A PARTY PURSUANT TO THIS ARTICLE 9 SHALL BE
                              CUMULATIVE AND IN ADDITION TO THE RIGHTS OF THE PARTIES
                              OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT.

                                                ARTICLE 9: INDEMNIFICATION

             9.1     Seller Indemnification Prior to Commercial Operation Date. Up to and including the
                     Commercial Operation Date, Seller shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Buyer, and its
                     officials, directors, agents and employees (“Buyer Indemnified Party”), from and against all third
                     party claims, liabilities, losses, penalties, arising out of, or in connection with, the negligence,
                     willful misconduct or violation of Applicable Laws by Seller and/or its agents, employees or sub-
                     contractors, excepting only loss, injury or damage caused by the active negligence, willful
                     misconduct or violation of Applicable Laws by a Buyer Indemnified Party.

             9.2     Seller and Buyer Indemnification after Commercial Operation Date. After the Commercial
                     Operation Date, each Party (“Indemnifying Party”) shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the
                     other Party and its elected officials, officers, directors, employees, agents, affiliates and
                     representatives (each, an “Indemnified Party”) from and against any and all losses, including but
                     not limited to losses arising from personal injury or death, or damage to property, but only to the
                     extent such losses result from or arise out of the negligence, willful misconduct or violation of
                     Applicable Laws by the Indemnifying Party.

             9.3     Environmental Indemnity. Seller shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the Buyer
                     Indemnified Parties, from any claim, liability, loss, injury or damage arising out of, or in connection
                     with Environmental Costs and any environmental matters associated with the Facility, including
                     the disposal and transportation of Hazardous Substances by or on behalf of the Seller or at the
                     Seller’s direction or agreement.

             9.4     Notice. If an Indemnified Party or Buyer Indemnified Party determines that it is entitled to defense
                     and indemnification under this Article 9, such Indemnified Party shall promptly notify the
                     Indemnifying Party in writing of the losses, and provide all reasonably necessary or useful
                     information, and authority to settle and/or defend the losses. No settlement that would impose costs
                     or expense upon the Indemnified Party shall be made without such Party’s prior written consent.

                                  ARTICLE 10: REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

             10.1    Seller’s Representations and Warranties. In addition to the representations and warranties set
                     forth in other sections of this Agreement, Seller represents and warrants to Buyer that as of the
                     Execution Date:




                                                                  -49-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (a)      Seller is duly organized and validly existing as a limited liability company under the laws
                              of the State of Delaware, and has the lawful limited liability company power to engage in
                              the business it presently conducts and contemplates conducting in this Agreement, and
                              Seller is duly qualified in California and each jurisdiction wherein the nature of the
                              business transacted by it makes such qualification necessary;

                     (b)      Seller has the legal limited liability company power and authority to make and carry out
                              this Agreement and to perform all of its obligations hereunder and all such actions have
                              been duly authorized by all necessary limited liability company proceedings on its part;

                     (c)      The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by Seller shall not conflict
                              with its governing documents, any Applicable Laws, or any covenant, agreement,
                              understanding, decree or order to which Seller is a party or by which it is bound or affected;

                     (d)      This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Seller and, as of the
                              Execution Date, constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of Seller, enforceable in
                              accordance with its terms against Seller, except to the extent that its enforceability may be
                              limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws
                              affecting the rights of creditors generally or by general principles of equity;

                     (e)      There are no actions, suits, proceedings or investigations pending or, to the knowledge of
                              Seller, threatened in writing, against Seller or any of its affiliates, at law or in equity, before
                              any Governmental Authority, which individually or in the aggregate are reasonably likely
                              to have a materially adverse effect on the business, properties or assets or the condition,
                              financial or otherwise, of Seller, or to result in any impairment of Seller’s ability to perform
                              its obligations under this Agreement; and

                     (f)      It is not Bankrupt and there are no proceedings pending or being contemplated by it or any
                              of its affiliates, or, to its knowledge, threatened against it or its affiliates which would result
                              in it being or becoming Bankrupt.

                     (g)      As of the Execution Date, Seller represents and warrants to Buyer that it has not received
                              notice from or been advised by any existing or potential supplier or service provider that
                              the disease designated COVID-19 or the related virus designated SARS-CoV-2 have
                              caused, or are reasonably likely to cause, a delay in the construction of the Facility or the
                              delivery of materials necessary to complete the Facility, in each case that would cause the
                              Commercial Operation Date to be later than the Guaranteed Commercial Operation Date.

             10.2    Buyer’s Representations and Warranties. Buyer represents and warrants to Seller that as of the
                     Execution Date:

                     (a)      Buyer is a municipal corporation, duly organized and validly existing, and has the lawful
                              power to engage in the business it presently conducts and contemplates conducting in this
                              Agreement;

                     (b)      Buyer has the legal power and authority to make and carry out this Agreement and to
                              perform its obligations hereunder and all such actions have been duly authorized by all
                              necessary proceedings on its part;




                                                                    -50-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (c)      The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by Buyer shall not conflict
                              with its governing documents, any Applicable Laws or any covenant, agreement,
                              understanding, decree or order to which Buyer is a party or by which it is bound or affected;

                     (d)      This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Buyer and, as of the
                              Execution Date, constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of Buyer, enforceable in
                              accordance with its terms against Buyer, except to the extent that its enforceability may be
                              limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws
                              affecting the rights of creditors generally or by general principles of equity;

                     (e)      There are no actions, suits, proceedings or investigations pending or, to the knowledge of
                              Buyer, threatened, in writing, against Buyer, at law or in equity, before any Governmental
                              Authority, which individually or in the aggregate are reasonably likely to have a materially
                              adverse effect on the business, properties or assets or the condition, financial or otherwise,
                              of Buyer, or to result in any impairment of Buyer’s ability to perform its obligations under
                              this Agreement;

                     (f)      It is not Bankrupt and there are no proceedings pending or being contemplated by it or, to
                              its knowledge, threatened against it which would result in it being or becoming Bankrupt.

             10.3    Covenants. In addition to other covenants contained in this Agreement, each Party covenants that
                     throughout the Term:

                     (a)      It shall continue to be duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws
                              of the jurisdiction of its formation;

                     (b)      It shall maintain (or obtain from time to time as required, including through renewal, as
                              applicable) all regulatory authorizations necessary for it to legally perform its obligations
                              under this Agreement; and

                     (c)      It shall perform its obligations under this Agreement in a manner that does not violate any
                              of the terms and conditions in its governing documents, any contracts to which it is a party
                              or any Applicable Law.

             10.4    Additional Buyer Representation and Warranty. Buyer represents and warrants to Seller that
                     the amount certified by the Controller for this Agreement (as referenced in Section 4.3) is sufficient
                     to cover all amounts that would be owed to Seller for the entire Term based on the assumption that
                     Seller delivers the Product for the full Guaranteed Installed Capacity each month without any
                     Guaranteed Storage Availability Liquidated Damages, Annual Round Trip Efficiency Adjustment,
                     or other reduction to the Monthly Payments owed hereunder.

                                                ARTICLE 11: MISCELLANEOUS

             11.1    Assignment.

                     (a)      General Assignment. Except as provided in Sections 11.1(b), (c), and (d), neither Party
                              shall assign this Agreement or its rights hereunder without the prior written consent of the
                              other Party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed so
                              long as among other things, (i) the assignee assumes the transferring Party’s payment and
                              performance obligations under this Agreement, (ii) the assignee agrees in writing to be
                              bound by the terms and conditions hereof, (iii) the transferring Party delivers financial


                                                                  -51-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              statements, information and other evidence satisfactory to the non-transferring Party of the
                              proposed assignee’s technical and financial capability to fulfill the assigning Party’s
                              obligations hereunder, and (iv) the transferring Party delivers such tax and enforceability
                              assurance as the other Party may reasonably request.

                     (b)      Assignment to Financing Providers. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this
                              Section 11.1, Buyer hereby consents to assignment of this Agreement by Seller including
                              to an Affiliate of Seller (for purposes of a portfolio financing) as collateral for any financing
                              or refinancing of the Facility to a Lender. Seller’s obligations under this Agreement shall
                              continue in their entirety in full force and effect. Promptly after granting such interest,
                              Seller shall notify Buyer in writing of the name, physical and electronic addresses, and
                              telephone and facsimile numbers of any Lender to which the Seller’s interest under this
                              Agreement has been assigned. The notice shall include the names of the Lender’s primary
                              contact(s) to whom all communications may be addressed. Seller shall promptly notify
                              Buyer of any changes to the information contained in the notice. As a condition to Buyer’s
                              consent to assignment, the following provisions shall apply to any assignment under this
                              Section 11.1(b):

                              (i)     Lender shall have the right, but not the obligation, to perform any act required to
                                      be performed by Seller under this Agreement to prevent or cure a default by the
                                      Seller and such act performed by Lender shall be as effective to prevent or cure a
                                      default as if done by Seller.

                              (ii)    Buyer shall cooperate with Seller or a Lender to execute or arrange for the delivery
                                      of certificates, consents, opinions, estoppels, amendments, and other documents
                                      reasonably requested by Seller or Lender in order to complete any financing or
                                      refinancing and shall enter into reasonable agreements as necessary to provide for
                                      recognition by Buyer of the Lender’s security interest in this Agreement, or in the
                                      direct or indirect ownership interests in Seller, and such other provisions as may
                                      be reasonably requested by Seller or any Lender, so long as the terms and
                                      conditions of such agreements are consistent with this Agreement and such
                                      amendments or agreements are reasonably acceptable to both Parties.
                                      Additionally, if requested by Seller, Buyer shall provide a consent for the benefit
                                      of Lenders and their agent that have received collateral assignment of the
                                      membership interests in Seller (or Seller’s Affiliate) in lieu of a collateral
                                      assignment of this Agreement, and shall grant the same benefits to such Lenders
                                      and their agent as those that would be provided to a Lender receiving a collateral
                                      assignment of this Agreement. All costs and expenses (including reasonable
                                      attorney’s fees) incurred by Buyer in connection with an assignment of this
                                      Agreement to a Lender, or a collateral assignment of membership interests to a
                                      Lender, shall be borne by Seller.

                              (iii)   In the event of an Event of Default by Seller under this Agreement, Buyer shall
                                      provide a copy of the notice of Event of Default to the Lender pursuant to Section
                                      8.2(a) at the same time as the notice is provided to Seller. Buyer shall accept a
                                      cure performed by a Lender and shall negotiate in good faith with the Lender as to
                                      the cure period(s) allowed for the Lender to cure any Event of Default. Buyer shall
                                      accept a cure by Lender as long as the cure is accomplished within the applicable
                                      cure period. Notwithstanding any Lender cure, Seller shall not be released and
                                      discharged from, and shall remain liable for, any and all obligations to the Buyer
                                      arising or accruing hereunder.

                                                                   -52-






DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              obtained an order, injunctive relief or other appropriate remedy to prevent Buyer from
                              making the requested third-party disclosure.

                     (d)      Non-Confidential Information. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section
                              11.2 nothing shall restrict any Party from using or disclosing information related to this
                              Agreement, including Confidential Information if such information (i) is generally
                              available to the public; (ii) was within the using or disclosing Party’s possession prior to it
                              being furnished hereunder, provided that such information is not subject to another
                              confidentiality agreement with, or other contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation of
                              confidentiality to, any other party with respect to such information; (iii) is rightfully
                              obtained by a Party from third parties authorized to make such disclosure without
                              restriction; (iv) is legally required to be disclosed by judicial or other governmental action
                              as determined by such Party’s attorney acting in good faith; or (v) is disclosed without a
                              duty of confidentiality to a third party by, or with the authorization of, the disclosing Party;
                              or (vi) is furnished to the non-disclosing Party’s Affiliates, or to the auditors, attorneys,
                              advisors, or actual or potential lenders or investors of the non-disclosing Party and/or its
                              Affiliates which are required to keep the information that is disclosed in confidence.

                     (e)      Nondisclosure of Private Information. If this Agreement requires Buyer to disclose
                              “Private Information” to Seller within the meaning of San Francisco Administrative Code
                              Chapter 12M, Seller shall use such information only in accordance with the restrictions
                              stated in Chapter 12M and in this Agreement and only as necessary in performing this
                              Agreement. Seller is subject to the enforcement and penalty provisions in Chapter 12M.

             11.3    Dispute Resolution; Choice of Law.

                     (a)      Negotiation; Dispute Resolution. The Parties will attempt in good faith to resolve any
                              dispute or controversy arising out of or relating to the performance of this Agreement by
                              negotiation. The status of any dispute or controversy notwithstanding, each Party shall
                              proceed diligently with the performance of its obligations under this Agreement in
                              accordance with and subject to the terms of this Agreement. If agreed by both Parties in
                              writing, disputes may be resolved by a mutually agreed-upon alternative dispute resolution
                              process. Neither Party will be entitled to legal fees or costs for matters resolved under this
                              section.

                     (b)      Governing Law; Venue. This Agreement and the rights and duties of the Parties hereunder
                              shall be governed by and construed, enforced and performed in accordance with the laws
                              of the state of California, without regard to principles of conflicts of law. Venue shall be
                              in the County of San Francisco, California.

             11.4    Audit. Each Party has the right, at its sole expense and during normal working hours, to examine
                     the records of the other Party to the extent reasonably necessary to verify the accuracy of any
                     statement, charge or computation made pursuant to this Agreement. The Parties shall maintain
                     such data and records in an accessible location and condition for a period of not fewer than five (5)
                     years after final payment under this Agreement or until after final audit has been resolved,
                     whichever is later.

             11.5    General.

                     (a)      Entire Agreement. This Agreement, the exhibits, attachments, and any written and fully
                              executed supplements hereto, any designated collateral, credit support, or similar

                                                                   -55-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              arrangement between the Parties constitute the entire agreement between the Parties
                              relating to the subject matter.

                     (b)      Construction. This Agreement shall be considered for all purposes as prepared through the
                              joint efforts of the Parties and shall not be construed against one Party or the other as a
                              result of the preparation, substitution, submission or other event of negotiation, drafting or
                              execution.

                     (c)      Amendments. Except to the extent set forth in this Agreement, no amendment or
                              modification to this Agreement shall be enforceable unless reduced to writing and executed
                              by both Parties.

                     (d)      No Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement shall not impart any rights enforceable by
                              any third party (other than a permitted successor or assignee bound to this Agreement).

                     (e)      No Waiver. Waiver by a Party of any default by the other Party shall not be construed as
                              a waiver of any other default.

                     (f)      Change in Law. If any provision of this Agreement is rendered unlawful by action by any
                              Governmental Authority, or any change in Applicable Law, including the CAISO Tariff
                              (a “Change in Law”) occurring after the Execution Date, the remaining lawful obligations
                              that arise under this Agreement shall not be affected. If the Change in Law results in
                              material changes to the Parties’ obligations with regard to any Product sold hereunder so
                              that the performance of this Agreement becomes impossible or impracticable, the Parties
                              shall work in good faith to revise this Agreement so that the Parties may perform their
                              obligations in a manner that maintains to the greatest extent practicable the original intent
                              of the Parties and the benefits, burdens, and obligations under this Agreement. A change
                              in cost shall not in and of itself be deemed to render this Agreement or any provision of
                              this Agreement impossible or impracticable.

                     (g)      Headings. The headings used herein are for convenience and reference purposes only.

                     (h)      Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding on each Party’s successors and assigns.

                     (i)      No Dedication. No undertaking by one Party to the other under any provision of the
                              Agreement shall constitute the dedication of that Party’s system or any portion thereof to
                              the other Party or to the public or affect Seller as an independent entity and not a public
                              utility.

                     (j)      Relationship of the Parties. The duties, obligations and liabilities of the Parties are
                              independent of one another and shall be limited to those expressly set forth herein. The
                              Agreement shall not be interpreted or construed to create an association, joint venture,
                              fiduciary relationship or partnership between Seller and Buyer or to impose any partnership
                              obligation or liability or any trust or agency obligation or relationship upon either Party.
                              Seller and Buyer shall not have any right, power or authority to enter into any agreement
                              or undertaking for, or act on behalf of, or act as or be an agent or representative of or
                              otherwise bind the other Party. Seller and Buyer do not intend to act as, or to be treated as,
                              partners in, co-venturers in, or lessor/lessee with respect to the Facility or any business
                              related to the Facility.




                                                                  -56-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     (k)      Limitations on Contributions. By executing this Agreement, Seller acknowledges its
                              obligations under Section 1.126 of the City’s Campaign and Governmental Conduct Code,
                              which prohibits any person who contracts with, or is seeking a contract with, any
                              department of the City for the rendition of personal services, for the furnishing of any
                              material, supplies or equipment, for the sale or lease of any land or building, for a grant,
                              loan or loan guarantee, or for a development agreement, from making any campaign
                              contribution to (i) a City elected official if the contract must be approved by that official, a
                              board on which that official serves, or the board of a state agency on which an appointee
                              of that official serves, (ii) a candidate for that City elective office, or (iii) a committee
                              controlled by such elected official or a candidate for that office, at any time from the
                              submission of a proposal for the contract until the later of either the termination of
                              negotiations for such contract or twelve months after the date the City approves the
                              contract. The prohibition on contributions applies to each prospective party to the contract;
                              each member of Seller’s board of directors; Seller’s chairperson, chief executive officer,
                              chief financial officer and chief operating officer; any person with an ownership interest of
                              more than 10% in Seller; any subcontractor listed in the bid or contract; and any committee
                              that is sponsored or controlled by Seller. Seller certifies that it has informed each such
                              person of the limitation on contributions imposed by Section 1.126 by the time it submitted
                              a proposal for the contract, and has provided the names of the persons required to be
                              informed to the City department with whom it is contracting.

                     (l)      Prohibition on Political Activity with City Funds. In accordance with San Francisco
                              Administrative Code Chapter 12.G, Seller may not participate in, support, or attempt to
                              influence any political campaign for a candidate or for a ballot measure in San Francisco
                              in the performance of this Agreement. Seller agrees to comply with San Francisco
                              Administrative Code Chapter 12.G and any implementing rules and regulations
                              promulgated by the Controller. The terms and provisions of Chapter 12.G are incorporated
                              herein by this reference. In the event Seller violates the provisions of this Section, Buyer
                              may, in addition to any other rights or remedies available hereunder, (i) terminate this
                              Agreement, and (ii) prohibit Seller from bidding on or receiving any new City contract for
                              a period of two years. The Controller will not consider Seller’s use of profit as a violation
                              of this Section.

                     (m)      [Intentionally Omitted]

                     (n)      [Intentionally Omitted]

                     (o)      [Intentionally Omitted]

                     (p)      Submitting False Claims. Pursuant to San Francisco Administrative Code Section 21.35,
                              any contractor or subcontractor who submits a false claim shall be liable to Buyer for the
                              statutory penalties set forth in that section. A contractor or subcontractor will be deemed
                              to have submitted a false claim to Buyer if the contractor or subcontractor: (a) knowingly
                              presents or causes to be presented to an officer or employee of Buyer a false claim or
                              request for payment or approval; (b) knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or used
                              a false record or statement to get a false claim paid or approved by Buyer; (c) conspires to
                              defraud Buyer by getting a false claim allowed or paid by Buyer; (d) knowingly makes,
                              uses, or causes to be made or used a false record or statement to conceal, avoid, or decrease
                              an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to Buyer; or (e) is a beneficiary of an
                              inadvertent submission of a false claim to Buyer, subsequently discovers the falsity of the


                                                                   -57-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              claim, and fails to disclose the false claim to Buyer within a reasonable time after discovery
                              of the false claim.

                     (q)      Use of City Opinion. Seller shall not quote, paraphrase, or otherwise refer to or use any
                              opinion of Buyer, its officers of agents, regarding Seller or Seller’s performance under this
                              contract without prior written permission of the Buyer.

                     (r)      Business License Taxes. Seller agrees that it is obligated to pay all amounts due to the City
                              under the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code during the Term of this
                              Agreement. Pursuant to Section 6.10-2 of the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations
                              Code, Seller further acknowledges and agrees that City may withhold any payments due to
                              Seller under this Agreement if Seller is delinquent in the payment of any amount required
                              to be paid to the City under the San Francisco Business and Tax Regulations Code. Any
                              payments withheld under this Section 11.5(r) shall be made to Seller, without interest, upon
                              full payment of all taxes owed by Seller and reinstatement of Seller’s vendor certification.

                     (s)      Conflict of Interest. Through its execution of this Agreement, Seller acknowledges that it
                              is familiar with the provision of Section 15.103 of the City’s Charter, Article III, Chapter
                              2 of City’s Campaign and Governmental Conduct Code, and Section 87100 et seq. and
                              Section 1090 et seq. of the Government Code of the State of California, and certifies that
                              it does not know of any facts which constitutes a violation of said provisions and agrees
                              that it will immediately notify Buyer if it becomes aware of any such fact during the term
                              of this Agreement.

                     (t)      City Requirements. Seller shall keep itself fully informed of the City’s Charter, codes,
                              ordinances and regulations of City and of all state, and federal laws in any manner affecting
                              the performance of the Agreement, and must at all times materially comply with such local
                              codes, ordinances, and regulations as they may be amended from time to time. Buyer shall
                              use best efforts to provide notice to Seller of any such amendment to the City’s Charter,
                              codes, ordinances and regulations of which it becomes aware; however, Seller’s obligations
                              under this Section shall not be contingent on notice from Buyer.

                     (u)      Severability. Should any provision of the Agreement be or become void, illegal or
                              unenforceable, the validity or enforceability of the other provisions of the Agreement shall
                              not be affected and shall continue in full force and effect. The Parties shall, however, use
                              their best endeavors to agree on the replacement of the void, illegal, or unenforceable
                              provision(s) with legally acceptable clauses which correspond as closely as possible to the
                              sense and purpose of the affected provision.

                     (v)      Survival. All rights pursuant to: Section 4.1(e) (Disputes and Adjustment of Invoices);
                              Section 5.6(c) (CAISO Charges Invoices); Article 8 (Default; Remedies; and Termination),
                              Article 9 (Indemnification), Section 11.2 (Proprietary or Confidential Information.);
                              Section 11.3 (Dispute Resolution; Choice of Law.), Section 11.4 (Audit. Each Party has
                              the right, at its sole expense and during normal working hours, to examine the records of
                              the other Party to the extent reasonably necessary to verify the accuracy of any statement,
                              charge or computation made pursuant to this Agreement. The Parties shall maintain such
                              data and records in an accessible location and condition for a period of not fewer than five
                              (5) years after final payment under this Agreement or until after final audit has been
                              resolved, whichever is later.); Section 11.5(l) (Prohibition on Political Activity with City
                              Funds. In accordance with San Francisco Administrative Code Chapter 12.G, Seller may
                              not participate in, support, or attempt to influence any political campaign for a candidate

                                                                  -58-


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              or for a ballot measure in San Francisco in the performance of this Agreement. Seller
                              agrees to comply with San Francisco Administrative Code Chapter 12.G and any
                              implementing rules and regulations promulgated by the Controller. The terms and
                              provisions of Chapter 12.G are incorporated herein by this reference. In the event Seller
                              violates the provisions of this Section, Buyer may, in addition to any other rights or
                              remedies available hereunder, (i) terminate this Agreement, and (ii) prohibit Seller from
                              bidding on or receiving any new City contract for a period of two years. The Controller
                              will not consider Seller’s use of profit as a violation of this Section.); and Section 11.5(q)
                              (City Opinion) shall also survive termination of this Agreement.

             11.6    Mobile Sierra. Absent the prior written agreement of all Parties, the standard of review for changes
                     to any rate, charge, term, or condition of service of this Agreement, whether proposed by a Party,
                     a non-party or FERC acting sua sponte, shall be the “public interest” standard of review set forth
                     in United Gas Pipe Line Co. v. Mobile Gas Service Corp., 350 U.S. 332 (1956) and Federal Power
                     Commission v. Sierra Pacific Power Co., 350 U.S. 348 (1956).

             11.7    Forward Contract. The Parties acknowledge and agree that this Agreement constitutes a “forward
                     contract” within the meaning of the United States Bankruptcy Code and Buyer and Seller are
                     “forward merchants” within the meaning of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Each Party further agrees
                     that, for all purposes of this Agreement, each Party waives and agrees not to assert the applicability
                     of the provisions of 11 U.S.C. § 366 in any Bankruptcy proceeding wherein such Party is a debtor.
                     In any such proceeding, each Party further waives the right to assert that the other Party is a provider
                     of last resort to the extent such term relates to 11 U.S.C. §366 or another provision of 11 U.S.C. §
                     101-1532.

             11.8    Notices. Unless otherwise stated in this Agreement, any notice, demand, request, or
                     communication required or authorized by this Agreement shall be delivered either by hand,
                     electronic mail, overnight courier or mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested with postage
                     prepaid, to the contacts set forth in the Cover Sheet. Either Party may change any information
                     listed in the Notice section of the Cover Sheet, by written notice as provided in this Section. Any
                     such notice, demand, request, or communication shall be deemed received on the Business Day on
                     which the notice was transmitted if delivery was made by hand or electronic mail, or (ii) upon
                     receipt by the receiving Party if sent by overnight courier or mailed by certified mail, return receipt
                     requested with postage prepaid.

             11.9    Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts and by different
                     Parties on separate counterparts, all of which shall be deemed one and the same agreement and
                     each of which shall be deemed an original. Delivery of an executed counterpart of this Agreement
                     by fax or other electronic means shall be deemed as effective as delivery of an originally executed
                     counterpart. Any Party delivering an executed counterpart of this Agreement by electronic means
                     shall also deliver an originally executed counterpart, but the failure of any Party to deliver an
                     originally executed counterpart of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
                     this Agreement.

                                                [Signature page follows on next page.]




                                                                  -59-




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                                EXHIBIT A

                                  SELLER DOCUMENTATION OF CONDITIONS PRECEDENT

             Part I:
             Seller shall provide to Buyer all of the following documentation within five (5) Business Days after the
             Execution Date:
             1.         A copy of each of (a) the articles of incorporation, certificate of incorporation, operating agreement
                        or similar applicable organizational document of Seller and (b) the by-laws or other similar
                        document of Seller as in effect, or anticipated to be in effect, on the Execution Date.
             2.         A certificate from the jurisdiction of Seller’s incorporation or organization certifying that Seller is
                        duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of such jurisdiction.
             3.         Evidence of Site control (e.g. lease with redacted price terms).
             4.         A copy of the Interconnection Agreement, if any.
             5.         Insurance documentation as required in Exhibit D.
             6.         A copy of the most recent financial statements (which may be unaudited) from Seller’s Parent.
             Part II:
             Seller shall provide to Buyer all of the following documentation in a timely manner following the Execution
             Date:
             1.         Evidence of all Permits received, as applicable, including but not limited to, any copies of all final
                        environmental review documents.
             2.         A copy of the Project Labor Agreement, if any, for the Facility.
             3.         A copy of the load flow analysis and any deliverability assessment performed by the PTO or CAISO
                        to show power flow capacity and/or deliverability at the point of interconnection.
             4.         A copy of all CAISO certification and testing performed for the Facility resource characteristics
                        identified in Exhibit B, including all Ancillary Services, storage Pmax and Pmin, Qualifying
                        Capacity and Net Qualifying Capacity.




                                                                     -61-




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                      Trade Secr
                     Ramp Rate Up (MW/minute):                     to be updated based on the results of each Storage Capacity
                     Test.
                                                           Trade Secret

                     Ramp Rate Down (MW/Minute):                     , to be updated based on the results of each Storage Capacity
                     Test.

                     Rest time required after reaching Minimum storage capacity: N/A

                     Rest time required after reaching Maximum storage capacity: N/A




                                                                          Exhibit B
                                                                           Page 2






DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT C

                                                  INTENTIONALLY RESERVED




                                                             Exhibit C   CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT D

                                                    INSURANCE COVERAGES

             1.      Liability Coverages. Without in any way limiting Seller’s liability pursuant to the
                     “Indemnification” section of this Agreement, Seller must maintain in force, during the full term of
                     the Agreement, insurance in the following amounts and coverages and be responsible for its
                     subcontractors, including Seller’s EPC Contractors, maintaining sufficient limits of the appropriate
                     insurance:
                     (a)      Workers’ Compensation, in statutory amounts, with Employers’ Liability Limits not less
                              than $1,000,000 each accident, injury, or illness; and include a blanket waiver of
                              subrogation; and
                     (b)      Commercial General Liability Insurance with limits not less than $1,000,000 each
                              occurrence and $2,000,000 general aggregate for Bodily Injury and Property Damage,
                              including Contractual Liability, Personal Injury, Products and Completed Operations; and
                     (c)      Commercial Automobile Liability Insurance with limits not less than $1,000,000 each
                              occurrence, “Combined Single Limit” for Bodily Injury and Property Damage, including
                              Owned, Non-Owned and Hired auto coverage, as applicable.
                     (d)      Employer’s Liability Insurance. Employers’ Liability insurance shall not be less than One
                              Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) for injury or death occurring as a result of each accident.
                              With regard to bodily injury by disease, the One Million Dollar ($1,000,000) policy limit
                              will apply to each employee.
                     (e)      Construction All-Risk Insurance. Seller shall maintain or cause to be maintained during the
                              construction of the Facility prior to the Commercial Operation Date, construction all-risk
                              form property insurance covering the Facility during such construction periods, and
                              naming Seller (and Lender if any) as the loss payee.
             2.      Additional Coverages
                     (a)      Property insurance, on an all-risk form, including earthquake and flood, for one hundred
                              percent (100%) of the full replacement value of the Site and Facility or 125% of the Loss
                              Limit of the 1/500 year earthquake/flood event as established by a Maximum Foreseeable
                              Loss earthquake and flood study prepared by the applicable insurer in accordance with
                              current industry standard. Such insurance shall, include Business Interruption coverage in
                              an amount equal to twelve months of revenue from this Agreement.
                     (b)      Seller shall maintain or cause to be maintained during the construction of the Facility prior
                              to the Commercial Operation Date, Pollution Legal Liability Insurance in the amount of
                              two million dollars ($2,000,000) per occurrence and I the aggregate, naming the Seller (and
                              Lender if any) as additional named insured.
             3.      Endorsements.
                     (a)      Commercial General Liability and Commercial Automobile Liability Insurance policies
                              must be endorsed to provide include blanket endorsements:
                              (i)     Name as Additional Insured, the City and County of San Francisco, its Officers,
                                      Agents, and Employees.
                              (ii)    The certificate of insurance shall state that such policies are primary insurance to
                                      any other insurance available to the Additional Insureds, with respect to any claims


                                                              Exhibit D       CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                      arising out of this Agreement, and that insurance applies separately to each insured
                                      against whom claim is made or suit is brought.
                     (b)      All policies shall provide thirty (30) days’ advance written notice of cancellation for any
                              reason, intended non-renewal, or reduction in coverages, except ten (10) days’ notice for
                              non-payment of premiums.
             4.      Length of Coverage. Should any of the required insurance be provided under a claims-made form,
                     Seller shall maintain such coverage continuously throughout the term of this Agreement and,
                     without lapse, for a period of three years beyond the expiration of this Agreement, to the effect that,
                     should occurrences during the Term give rise to claims made after expiration of the Agreement,
                     such claims shall be covered by such claims-made policies.
             5.      Maintenance of Coverage. Should any required insurance lapse during the term of this
                     Agreement, requests for payments originating after such lapse shall not be processed until the Buyer
                     receives satisfactory evidence of reinstated coverage as required by this Agreement, effective as of
                     the lapse date. If insurance is not reinstated, Buyer may, at its sole option, terminate this Agreement
                     effective on the date of such lapse of insurance.
             Certificates. Prior to commencement of the Term, Seller shall furnish to Buyer certificates of insurance
             and additional insured policy endorsements with insurers with ratings comparable to A- , VII or higher, that
             are authorized to do business in the State of California, and that are satisfactory to Buyer, in form evidencing
             all coverages set forth above. Approval of the insurance by Buyer shall not relieve or decrease Seller’s
             liability hereunder.




                                                              Exhibit D        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 2


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT E

                                                     CONSTRUCTION START
                                                       CERTIFICATION

             __(Date)___

             This certification (“Certification”) of the Construction Start Date is delivered by ___________ (“Seller”)
             to the City and County of San Francisco, acting by and through its Public Utilities Commission,
             CleanPowerSF, (“Buyer”) in accordance with the terms of that certain Energy Storage Agreement dated
             ________ (“Agreement”) by and between Seller and Buyer. All capitalized terms used in this Certification
             but not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in the
             Agreement. Seller hereby certifies and represents to Buyer that Construction Start has occurred and :

                        a)    The Construction Start Date occurred on ___________. (“Construction Start Date”);in

                        b)    the Notice to Proceed was issued by Seller to the EPC contractor, [EPS Contractor name[on
                              ______________ (attached), and;

                        c)    mobilization at the Facility Site commenced on __________.



             IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this certificate on behalf of the Seller as of the
             ___ day of ________.

              Seller:                                           [Licensed Professional Engineer]


              Signature:                                        Signature:

              Name:                                             Name:

              Title:                                            Title:

                                                                Date:


                                         License Number and LPE Stamp:




                                                             Exhibit E       CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                              EXHIBIT F

                                                 PROGRESS REPORTING FORM

             Each Progress Report shall include the following items:

             1.      Executive Summary.

             2.      Gantt chart schedule showing progress on achieving each of the Milestones.

             3.      Description of any material planned changes to the Facility or the Facility Site.
             4.       Permitting activities. Provide a detailed summary of the status and progress of each material
             activity involving obtaining Permits including (a) the schedule for relevant Seller submissions and
             applications, (b) the schedule for the relevant Governmental Authority actions, environmental review,
             hearings, and appeals, and (c) information on any potential delays in obtaining Permits for the Facility
             including the nature and cause of the delay.
             5.       Financing activities. Provide a summary of the status and progress of each major financing activity,
             including the date of execution of significant documents, and information on the expected timing of future
             significant activities.
             6.       Major equipment procurement activities. For each type of equipment, list the number of each major
             item to be procured, the manufacturer, model number (if applicable), and rating. List the delivery schedule
             (expected or actual as applicable), breaking out the number of each item to be procured or delivered in each
             Calendar Quarter.
             7.       Construction Activities. Include information on the status of any construction-related factors that
             may affect the ability of the Facility to deliver Product to the Buyer. Include information on the Facility
             infrastructure, generating equipment, and major auxiliary equipment. Also include information on the
             substations, switchyards, gen-ties, telecommunications equipment or other Interconnection Facilities that
             are the direct responsibility of the Facility.
             8.       Interconnection Activities. Include information on interconnection-related factors that may affect
             the ability of the Facility to deliver Product to the Buyer. Include information on the status of
             interconnection studies, Interconnection Agreements, design and construction of Interconnection Facilities
             (e.g., substations, switchyards, gen-ties, system protection schemes, telecommunications equipment to the
             extent not already covered in the Facility construction information), Network Upgrades, and grid outage
             and/or interconnection schedules.
             9.       Startup. Include information on the status of activities related to preparation for Commercial
             Operation, including progress towards the items set forth in Exhibit H-2, the requirements and notifications
             of the grid operator and Transmission Provider, and any other activities that must be conducted before the
             Facility may deliver Energy to the grid and/or declare Commercial Operation.
             For items 4 through 8, include the progress and schedule of all major agreements, contracts, permits,
             approvals, technical studies, financing agreements, and major equipment purchase orders showing the
             start dates, completion dates, and completion percentages. 8. Forecast of activities scheduled for the
             current calendar quarter.

             10.     List of issues that are likely to potentially affect Seller’s Milestones.




                                                               Exhibit F        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                                Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             11.     Pictures, in sufficient quantity and of appropriate detail, in order to document construction and
             startup progress of the Facility, the interconnection into the Transmission System and all other
             interconnection utility services.

             12.     CPUC General Order 156 supplier diversity reporting. Format to be provided by Buyer.

             13.     Any other documentation reasonably requested by Buyer.




                                                             Exhibit F     CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 2


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                              EXHIBIT G-1

                                  FORM OF COMMERCIAL OPERATION CERTIFICATION

                      This certification (“Certification”) of Commercial Operation is delivered by [LICENSED
             PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER] (“Engineer”) to the City and County of San Francisco, acting by and
             through its Public Utilities Commission, CleanPowerSF (“Buyer”) in accordance with the terms of that
             certain Energy Storage Agreement dated _______ (“Agreement”) by and between Seller and Buyer. All
             capitalized terms used in this Certification but not otherwise defined in this Exhibit G-1 shall have the
             meanings assigned to these terms in the Agreement.

             Engineer hereby certifies and represents to Buyer the following:
             1.        The Facility is fully operational and reliable.
             2.        The Facility is interconnected, fully integrated, and synchronized with the Transmission System.
             3.        The Facility’s Installed Capacity is no less than ninety-five percent (95%) and no more than one
                       hundred percent (100%) of the Guaranteed Installed Capacity and the Facility is capable of
                       charging, storing, and discharging Energy, subject to the applicable Operating Parameters.
             4.        The Facility has met all Interconnection Agreement requirements and is capable of receiving
                       Charging Energy from, and delivering Discharging Energy to, the CAISO Balancing Authority up
                       to the Guaranteed Installed Capacity.
             5.        The commissioning of all equipment for the Facility has been completed in accordance with the
                       manufacturers’ specifications.
             6.        Authorization to parallel the Facility was obtained by the Transmission Provider on
                       ____[DATE]____.
             7.        The Transmission Provider has provided documentation supporting full unrestricted release for
                       Commercial Operation by [Name of Transmission Provider ] on _______[DATE]_____.
             8.        The CAISO has provided notification supporting Commercial Operation, in accordance with the
                       CAISO tariff on _______[DATE]_____.



             EXECUTED by ENGINEER this ________ day of _____________, 20__.
              Licensed Professional Engineer:
              Signature:
              Name:
              Title:




                                                               Exhibit G-1   CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                                 Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT G-2

                                    FORM OF INSTALLED CAPACITY CERTIFICATION

             This certification of the Installed Capacity is delivered by [licensed professional engineer] to the City and
             County of San Francisco, acting by and through its Public Utilities Commission, CleanPowerSF, in
             accordance with the terms of the Energy Storage Agreement dated ___________, (“Agreement”) by and
             between Buyer and Seller. All capitalized terms used in this certification but not otherwise defined herein
             shall have the meanings set forth in the Agreement.

             I hereby certify the following:

             The Storage Capacity Test demonstrated a maximum dependable operating capability that can be sustained
             for [__] consecutive hours to discharge electric energy of [__] MW AC to the Delivery Point, in accordance
             with the testing procedures, requirements and protocols set forth in Section 5.4 and Exhibit K prior to the
             Commercial Operation Date (“Installed Capacity”).

             EXECUTED BY [LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER]


             This ______ day of ____________, 20__.

                                                               [Licensed Professional Engineer]




                                                               Signature:

                                                               Name:




                                                             Exhibit G-2      CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT H-1

                                                 FORM OF LETTER OF CREDIT

                                              [Issuing Bank Letterhead and Address]
                                         STANDBY LETTER OF CREDIT NO. XXXXXXXX
             Date: [Insert issue date]
              Beneficiary: City and County of San Francisco, Applicant: [Insert name and address of
                           acting by and                     Applicant]
                           through its Public Utilities
                           Commission, CleanPowerSF
                           525 Golden Gate Avenue
                           San Francisco, CA 94102
                           Attn:

                     Letter of Credit Amount: [insert Amount]
                     Expiry Date: [insert expiry date]
                     Ladies and Gentlemen:
                 By order of [insert name of Applicant] (the “Applicant”), we [insert name of issuing bank, and the
             city and state in which it is located] (the “Bank”) hereby issue in favor of the City and County of San
             Francisco, acting by and through its Public Utilities Commission, CleanPowerSF, (the “Beneficiary”) this
             irrevocable standby letter of credit No. [insert number of letter of credit] (the “Letter of Credit”), for the
             account of Applicant, for drawings up to but not to exceed the aggregate sum of U.S. $ [insert amount in
             figures followed by (amount in words)] (the “Letter of Credit Amount”). This Letter of Credit is available
             with the Bank by sight payment, at the Bank’s offices located at the address stated below, effective
             immediately, and it shall expire at our close of business on [insert expiry date] (the “Expiry Date”).

                     Funds under this Letter of Credit are available to the Beneficiary against presentation of the
             following documents:
             1.      Beneficiary’s signed and dated sight draft in the form of Exhibit J-2 hereto, referencing this Letter
                     of Credit No. [insert number] and stating the amount of the demand; and

             2.      One of the following statements signed by an authorized representative or officer of Beneficiary:

                     A.       Pursuant to the terms of that certain [insert name of the agreement] (the
                              “Agreement”), dated [insert date of the Agreement], between Beneficiary and [insert
                              name of Seller under the Agreement], Beneficiary is entitled to draw under Letter of
                              Credit No. [insert number] amounts owed by [insert name of Seller under the
                              Agreement] under the Agreement; or

                     B.       “Letter of Credit No. [insert number] shall expire in thirty (30) days or less and [insert
                              name of Seller under the Agreement] has not provided replacement security
                              acceptable to Beneficiary.

             Special Conditions:

             1.      Partial and multiple drawings under this Letter of Credit are allowed;

                                                             Exhibit H-1      CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             2.      All banking charges associated with this Letter of Credit are for the account of the Applicant;

             3.      This Letter of Credit is not transferable; and

             4.      The Expiry Date of this Letter of Credit shall be automatically extended without an amendment
                     hereto for a period of one year from the current Expiry Date and any future Expiry Date, unless at
                     least sixty (90) days prior to the Expiry Date, we send you written notice by express courier that
                     this Letter of Credit will not be so extended for such additional period.

                     The Bank engage with Beneficiary that drafts drawn under and in compliance with the terms of this
             Letter of Credit will be duly honored upon presentation, on or before the Expiry Date (or after the Expiry
             Date as provided below), at the Bank’s offices located at [insert issuing bank’s address for drawings].

                      All demands for payment shall be made by presentation of originals or copies of documents; or by
             facsimile transmission of documents to [insert fax number], Attention: [insert name of issuing bank’s
             receiving department], with originals or copies of documents to follow by overnight mail. If presentation
             is made by facsimile transmission, Beneficiary may contact the Bank at [insert phone number] to confirm
             receipt of the transmission. Beneficiary’s failure to seek such a telephone confirmation does not affect the
             Bank’s obligation to honor such a presentation.

                      The Bank’s payments against complying presentations under this Letter of Credit shall be made no
             later than on the sixth (6th) banking day following a complying presentation.

                    Except as stated herein, this Letter of Credit is not subject to any condition or qualification. It is
             the Bank’s individual obligation, which is not contingent upon reimbursement and is not affected by any
             agreement, document, or instrument between us and the Applicant or between the Beneficiary and the
             Applicant or any other party.

                     Except as otherwise specifically stated herein, this Letter of Credit is subject to and governed by
             the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits, 2007 Revision, International Chamber of
             Commerce (ICC) Publication No. 600 (the “UCP 600”); provided that, if this Letter of Credit expires during
             an interruption of the Bank’s business as described in Article 36 of the UCP 600, we shall honor drafts
             presented in compliance with this Letter of Credit within thirty (30) days after the resumption of the Bank’s
             business and effect payment accordingly. The law of the State of New York shall apply to any matters not
             covered by the UCP 600.

                    For telephone assistance regarding this Letter of Credit, please contact us at [insert number and
             any other necessary details].




                                                             Exhibit H-1      CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 2


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT H-2
                                                     FORM OF SIGHT DRAFT

                     TO: [INSERT NAME AND ADDRESS OF PAYING BANK]

                     AMOUNT: $                                 DATE:

                   AT SIGHT OF THIS DEMAND PAY TO THE ORDER OF ______________ THE AMOUNT
             OF U.S.$_____________________________________________________U.S. DOLLARS) DRAWN
             UNDER [INSERT NAME OF ISSUING BANK] LETTER OF CREDIT NO. XXXXXX.

                     REMIT FUNDS AS FOLLOWS:



                     [INSERT PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS]


                                                               DRAWER



                                                               By:         ________________________________
                                                                       Name and Title




                                                             Exhibit H-2       CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021






DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT K
                                                  STORAGE CAPACITY TESTS

             I.      Storage Capacity Test Frequency.

             1.      Initial Storage Contract Capacity Tests. Upon no less than ten (10) Business Days’ prior Notice to
                     Buyer, Seller shall schedule and complete a Storage Capacity Test prior to the Commercial
                     Operation Date. The initial SCT shall be performed in accordance with this Exhibit N and shall
                     establish the initial Storage Contract Capacity and Round Trip Efficiency Rate hereunder based on
                     the actual capacity of the Facility determined by the SCT.

             2.      Subsequent Storage Capacity Tests. Commencing in the second Contract Year and in each
                     subsequent Contract Year, within the first quarter of each calendar year of the Delivery Term and
                     upon no less than ten (10) Business Days prior Notice to Buyer, Seller shall schedule and complete
                     a Storage Capacity Test. Buyer shall have the right to require a retest not more than four (4) times
                     per Contract Year upon no less than five (5) Business Days prior written notice to Seller, or any
                     shorter period reasonable acceptable to Seller consistent with Prudent Operating Practice; unless
                     Buyer reasonably shows that the actual storage capacity demonstrated by operating records is less
                     than the current Storage Contract Capacity, in which case Buyer may conduct another retest in the
                     same Contract Year. Seller shall have the right to conduct not more four (4) tests and retests in the
                     aggregate per Contract Year, including with respect to the initial Storage Capacity Test conducted
                     before the Commercial Operation Date, upon no less than five (5) Business Days’ prior written
                     notice to Buyer, or any shorter period reasonable acceptable to Buyer consistent with Prudent
                     Operating Practice.

             3.      Test Results and Re-Setting of Storage Contract Capacity. No later than fifteen (15) days following
                     any SCT, Seller shall submit a test report detailing results and findings of the test. The report shall
                     include meter readings and plant log sheets verifying the operating conditions and output of the
                     Facility. In accordance with Section 5.4(f) of the Agreement and Part III below, the actual capacity
                     determined pursuant to a Storage Capacity Test (up to, but not in excess of, the Guaranteed Installed
                     Capacity) shall become the new Storage Contract Capacity at the beginning of the day following
                     the completion of the Storage Capacity Test for all purposes under this Agreement.

             II.     Storage Capacity Test Procedures.

             1.       General. Each SCT (including the initial SCT) shall be conducted in accordance with Prudent
                      Operating Practice, CAISO’s testing procedures for energy storage facilities, and the provisions
                      of this Exhibit K. Buyer or its representative may be present for the SCT and may, for
                      informational purposes only, use its own metering equipment (at Buyer’s sole cost).

             2.       Conditions Prior to Testing.

                     A.       Energy Management System (EMS) Functionality. The EMS shall be successfully
                              configured to receive data from the Battery Management System (BMS), exchange DNP3
                              data with the Buyer SCADA device, and transfer data to the database server for the
                              calculation, recording and archiving of data points.

                     B.       Communications. The Remote Terminal Unit (RTU) testing should be successfully
                              completed prior to any testing. The interface between Seller’s RTU and the Facility
                              SCADA System should be fully tested and functional prior to starting any testing, including

                                                              Exhibit K        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              verification of the data transmission pathway between the Seller’s RTU and Seller’s EMS
                              interface and the ability to record SCADA System data.

                     C.       Commissioning. Commissioning shall be successfully completed per manufacturer
                              guidance on all applicable installed Facility equipment, including verification that all
                              controls, set points, and instruments of the EMS are configured.

             3.      Requirements Applicable to all Storage Capacity Tests.

                     A.       Purpose of Test. Each SCT shall:

                              (1)     Determine an updated Storage Contract Capacity;
                              (2)     Determine the amount of Energy required to fully charge the Facility;
                              (3)     Determine the Facility charge ramp rate;
                              (4)     Determine the Facility discharge ramp rate;

                     B.       Parameters. During each SCT, the following parameters shall be measured and recorded
                              simultaneously for the Facility, at an interval necessary to support the Test Showing
                              calculations no longer than 10 minutes:

                              (1)     Time (minutes);
                              (2)     Charging Energy (MWh);
                              (3)     Discharging Energy (MWh);
                              (4)     Stored Energy Level (MWh);
                              (5)     Station Uses (MWh).

                     C.       Conditions. During each SCT, the following conditions at the Site shall be measured and
                              recorded simultaneously at thirty (30) minute intervals:

                              (1)     Relative humidity (%);
                              (2)     Barometric pressure (inches Hg) near the horizontal centerline of the Facility;
                              (3)     Ambient air temperature (°F).

                     D.       Test Showing. Each SCT shall record and report the following datapoints:
                              (1)     That the SCT successfully started;
                              (2)     The maximum sustained discharging level for four (4) consecutive hours pursuant
                                     to A(1) above;
                              (3)     The maximum sustained charging level for a period of consecutive hours equal to
                                     four (4) hours divided by the Guaranteed Round Trip Efficiency;
                              (4)     Amount of time between the Facility’s electrical output going from 0 to the
                                     maximum sustained discharging level registered during the Test (for purposes of
                                     calculating the Ramp Rate);
                              (5)     Amount of time between the Facility’s electrical input going from 0 to the
                                     maximum sustained charging level registered during the Test (for purposes of
                                     calculating the Ramp Rate);
                              (6)     Amount of Charging Energy and Energy In, registered at the Facility Meter, to go
                                     from 0% SOC to 100% SOC;
                              (7)     Amount of Facility Energy and Energy Out, registered at the Facility Meter, to go
                                     from 100% SOC to 0% SOC.


                                                             Exhibit K       CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 2


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     E.       Test Conditions.

                              (1)     General. At all times during a SCT, the Facility shall be operated in compliance
                                      with Prudent Operating Practice and all operating protocols recommended,
                                      required or established by the manufacturer for operation.
                              (2)     Abnormal Conditions. If abnormal operating conditions that prevent the
                                      recordation of any required parameter occur during a SCT, Seller may postpone or
                                      reschedule all or part of such SCT in accordance with Part II.2.F below.
                              (3)     Instrumentation and Metering. Seller shall provide all instrumentation, metering
                                      and data collection equipment required to perform the SCT. The instrumentation,
                                      metering and data collection equipment electrical meters shall be calibrated in
                                      accordance with Prudent Operating Practice.

                     F.       Incomplete Test. If any SCT is not completed in accordance with this Exhibit N, Buyer
                              may in its sole discretion: (i) accept the results up to the time the SCT stopped without any
                              modification to the Storage Contract Capacity pursuant to Section III, below; (ii) require
                              that the portion of the SCT not completed, be completed within a reasonable specified time
                              period; or (iii) require that the SCT be entirely repeated. Notwithstanding the above, if
                              Seller is unable to complete a SCT due to a Force Majeure Event or the actions or inactions
                              of Buyer, the CAISO, or the Transmission Provider, Seller shall be permitted to reconduct
                              such SCT on dates and at times reasonably acceptable to the Parties.

                     G.       Final Report. Within five (5) Business Days after the completion of any SCT, Seller shall
                              prepare and submit to Buyer a written report of the results of the SCT, which report shall
                              include:

                              (1)     a record of the personnel present during the SCT that served in an operating,
                                      testing, monitoring or other such participatory role;
                              (2)     the measured data for each parameter set forth in Part II.2.A through C, including
                                      copies of the raw data taken during the test;
                              (3)     the level of Storage Contract Capacity, Charging Capacity, Discharging Capacity
                                      and Stored Energy Level determined by the SCT, including supporting
                                      calculations;
                              (4)     the Round Trip Efficiency; and
                              (5)     Seller’s statement of either Seller’s acceptance of the SCT or Seller’s rejection of
                                      the SCT results and reason(s) therefor.

                              Within ten (10) Business Days after receipt of such report, Buyer shall notify Seller in
                              writing of either Buyer’s acceptance of the SCT results or Buyer’s rejection of the SCT
                              and reason(s) therefor. If either Party rejects the results of any SCT, such SCT shall be
                              repeated in accordance with Part II.2.F.

             3.      Supplementary Storage Capacity Test Protocol. No later than sixty (90) days prior to conducting
                     the initial SCT, Seller shall deliver to Buyer for its review and approval (such approval not to be
                     unreasonably delayed or withheld) a supplement to this Exhibit K with additional and
                     supplementary details, procedures and requirements applicable to SCTs based on the then current
                     design of the Facility (“Supplementary Storage Test Protocol”). Thereafter, from time to time,
                     Seller may deliver to Buyer for its review and approval (such approval not to be unreasonably
                     delayed or withheld) any Seller recommended updates to the then current Supplementary Storage
                     Test Protocol. The initial Supplementary Storage Test Protocol (and each update thereto), once
                     approved by Buyer, shall be deemed an amendment to this Exhibit K.
                                                              Exhibit K       CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 3


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             III.    Storage Capacity Test Results and Re-Setting of Storage Contract Capacity.

             The total amount of Discharging Energy delivered to the Delivery Point (expressed in MWh AC) during
             each of the first four (4) hours of discharge (up to, but not in excess of, the product of (i) the Guaranteed
             Installed Capacity multiplied by (ii) four (4) hours) shall be divided by four (4) hours to determine the
             Storage Contract Capacity, which shall be expressed in MW AC, and shall be the new Storage Contract
             Capacity commencing at the beginning of the day following the completion of the test for calculating the
             Contract Price and for all other purposes under this Agreement.




                                                             Exhibit K        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 4


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                               EXHIBIT L
                                                 AVAILABILITY CALCULATION

             Calculation of Monthly Storage Availability. Seller shall calculate the “Monthly Storage Availability” for
             each month of the Delivery Term using the formula set forth below:

                                                                         [MONHRSm – UNAVAILHRSm]
              Monthly Storage Availability (%) =
                                                                                     [MONHRSm]

                     where:
                              m = the relevant month “m” in which availability is calculated;
                              MONHRSm is the total number of hours for the applicable month;
                     UNAVAILHRSm, is the total number of hours, or partial hours, in the month during which the
                     Facility was unavailable to deliver Product for any reason other than the occurrence of any one or
                     more of the following (each, an “Availability Excused Event”): a Force Majeure Event; Buyer
                     breach or Event of Default; System Emergency; the Storage Capacity Test conducted prior to the
                     Commercial Operation Date, any Buyer Dispatched Test, and up to one Seller Initiated Test per
                     Contract Year; up to one hundred eighty (180) hours of scheduled maintenance (including Planned
                     Outages) and Facility Rebalancing Dispatches in the aggregate in any Contract Year; or the
                     Operating Parameters. For clarification, (i) hours of unavailability caused by any Availability
                     Excused Event will not be included in UNAVAILHRS, and (ii) during any period when the Facility
                     is available to deliver Product, but delivery is not possible due to a Curtailment in the same period,
                     the Facility shall be deemed to be available for purposes of calculating the Monthly Storage
                     Availability and such period shall not be included in UNAVAILHRS.
                              Partial Hours and Partial Availability: If, for any reason other than an Availability Excused
                              Event, the Facility is unavailable for less than a full hour or if a portion of the Facility is
                              unavailable during any hour, the hours in which the Facility is partially available will be
                              adjusted by an equivalent percentage to reflect the reduction in availability and will be
                              included in this calculation of UNAVAILHRSm. Any Availability Excused Event that
                              results in unavailability of the Facility for less than a full hour or unavailability of a portion
                              of the Facility during any hour, the hours in which the Facility is partially available will be
                              adjusted by an equivalent percentage to reflect the reduction in availability for this
                              calculation.
                              If the Facility or any component thereof was previously deemed unavailable for an hour or
                              part of an hour and Seller provides a revised Notice indicating the Facility is available for
                              that hour or part of an hour at least sixty (60) minutes prior to the time the Buyer is required
                              to schedule or bid the Facility in the Real-Time Market, the Facility will be deemed to be
                              available to the extent set forth in the revised Notice.
             Guaranteed Storage Availability Liquidated Damages
             The applicable “Guaranteed Storage Availability Liquidated Damages” are calculated as follows:
                     (i)      If the Monthly Storage Availability is greater than or equal to          %, then:
                                                                                                 Trade Se




                              Guaranteed Storage Availability Liquidated Damages = 0
                                                                                                                        Trade S
                     (ii)     If the Monthly Storage Availability is less than        %, but greater than or equal to         %,
                                                                                 Trade S



                              then:

                                                               Exhibit L         CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                                Page 1




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                    720                        720

                     The Guaranteed Storage Availability Damages for the month equals
                    Trade Secret
                                                                                           Trade Secret
             Sample 3:
                     Assumptions:
                         o    Month has 30 days (720 MONHRSm);
                         o    The Facility is 100% unavailable during 300 hours for reasons not constituting Availability
                              Excused Events.
                     UNAVAILHRS = 300 hours

                                                [720 – 300]                    420
              Monthly        Storage
                                                                                                         58%
              Availability (%) =
                                                    720                        720

                     The Guaranteed Storage Availability Damages for the month equals      Trade Secret
                     Trade Secret




                                                              Exhibit L      CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 3






DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT N

                                               SOCIAL IMPACT PARTNERSHIP (SIP)


             Terms and Conditions

             Seller’s SIP Commitments included in its proposal are set forth in this Exhibit N and constitute contractual
             obligations under this Agreement.

             Seller shall not allocate or include any hours or dollars for delivery of Seller’s SIP Commitments in Seller’s
             costs for the products sold under this Agreement. Seller shall fund the SIP Commitments independently
             and such funding shall neither be tied to, nor dependent upon, SFPUC funds or sources of funding
             receivable from SFPUC. This requirement of independent funding includes direct financial contributions
             and any costs related to the performance or delivery of the SIP Commitments. The provision of SIP
             Commitments does not entitle Seller to additional costs or benefits beyond the scope specified within the
             Agreement.

             Seller shall commence performance of the SIP Commitments after the Execution Date. SIP Commitments
             performed as part of previous contracts or prior to the Execution Date cannot count towards Seller’s SIP
             Commitments for this Agreement. If Seller has established programs or plans that are consistent with the
             SIP Commitments, Seller may continue those programs as part of its SIP Commitments and will be given
             credit for activities that are performed following the Execution Date.

             In the event that fulfillment of SIP Commitments becomes impossible or impracticable, the Seller may
             request a modification to its SIP Commitments by documenting the impossibility or impracticability of
             proceeding with its existing SIP Commitments and proposing one or more alternatives that are at least equal
             in value subject to review and approval by the SFPUC.

             Project Team

             The SIP Plan to be developed by Seller will specify the Executive in Charge and Community Benefits
             Coordinator. The Executive in Charge shall manage the Seller’s SIP Commitments, provide fiduciary
             oversight, and ensure that the SIP Commitments listed in the Summary Table below are delivered to the
             communities that they are intended to benefit in a transparent and accountable manner. The Executive in
             Charge shall work with the SIP Coordinator to organize, plan, track, measure, and report to the Buyer on
             Seller’s SIP Commitments. If the Seller replaces the Executive in Charge and the Community Benefits
             Coordinator, the Seller must inform the SFPUC in writing.

             SIP Commitments

             Seller shall provide a minimum total SIP Commitment contribution with a value of at leastTrade Secret over
             the term as stated in Contractor’s SIP Proposal and the SIP Commitments Table below.




                                                              Exhibit N       CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 1




DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              reports shall identify activities and detail the quantifiable outcomes, key metrics, and the
                              total number of volunteer hours and/or financial commitments performed during that
                              period. As part of the bi-annual progress reports, the Seller must also submit
                              documentation to substantiate that the SIP Commitments and any funds or volunteer
                              hours associated therewith were delivered (a non-exhaustive, illustrative list of examples
                              of substantiating documentation includes timesheets, receipts, cancelled checks, sign-in
                              sheets from events and trainings, formal agreement documents, agendas and presentations
                              from meetings, and statements of activities). The Seller must submit progress reports by
                              the last business day of the month following the close of the 2nd and 4th business
                              quarters and are only required if there were activities completed in the reporting.
                         o    The Contractor shall also submit an annual newsletter to the SFPUC SIP Team
                              documenting the highlights of the SIP Commitments and outcomes for the year and is
                              only required if there were activities completed in that year.




                                                             Exhibit N        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 3


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                                                             EXHIBIT O
                                                      FORM OF GUARANTY

             This Guaranty (this “Guaranty”) is entered into as of [_____] (the “Effective Date”) by and between
             [_____], a [______] (“Guarantor”), and The City and County of San Francisco, acting by and through its
             Public Utilities Commission, CleanPowerSF (together with its successors and permitted assigns, “Buyer”).

                                                              Recitals

             A.       Buyer and Corby Energy Storage, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Seller”), entered
             into that certain Energy Storage Agreement (as amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time,
             the “ESA”) dated as of [____], 20___.

             B.      Guarantor is entering into this Guaranty as [Development Assurance/Performance Assurance] to
             secure Seller’s obligations under the ESA, as required by Article 6 of the ESA.

             C.      It is in the best interest of Guarantor to execute this Guaranty inasmuch as Guarantor will derive
             substantial direct and indirect benefits from the execution and delivery of the ESA.

             D.      Initially capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meaning set forth in the ESA.

                                                             Agreement

             1.      Guaranty. For value received, Guarantor does hereby unconditionally, absolutely and irrevocably
             guarantee, as primary obligor and not as a surety, to Buyer the prompt payment by Seller of any and all
             amounts and payment obligations now or hereafter owing from Seller to Buyer under the ESA, including,
             without limitation, liquidated damages, compensation for penalties, the Termination Payment,
             indemnification payments or other damages, as and when required pursuant to the terms of the ESA (the
             “Obligations”), and any and all expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) reasonably incurred by
             Buyer in enforcing its rights under this Guaranty, provided, that Guarantor’s aggregate liability under or
             arising out of this Guaranty for payment of the Obligations shall not exceed ________ Dollars
             ($___________) (the “Guaranteed Amount”). The Parties understand and agree that any payment by
             Guarantor or Seller of any portion of the Obligations shall thereafter reduce the Guaranteed Amount
             hereunder on a dollar-for-dollar basis. This Guaranty is an irrevocable, absolute, unconditional and
             continuing guaranty of the full and punctual payment, and not of collection, of the Obligations and, except
             as otherwise expressly addressed herein, is in no way conditioned upon any requirement that Buyer first
             attempt to collect the payment of the Obligations from Seller, any other guarantor of the Obligations or any
             other Person or entity or resort to any other means of obtaining payment of the Obligations. In the event
             Seller shall fail to duly, completely or punctually pay any Obligations as required pursuant to the ESA,
             Guarantor shall promptly pay such amount as required.

             2.       Demand Notice. For avoidance of doubt, a payment shall be due for purposes of this Guaranty
             only when and if a payment is due and payable by Seller to Buyer under the terms and conditions of the
             ESA. If Seller fails to pay any Obligations as required pursuant to the ESA within five (5) Business Days
             following Seller’s receipt of Buyer’s written notice of such failure (the “Demand Notice”), then Buyer may
             elect to exercise its rights under this Guaranty and may make a demand upon Guarantor (a “Payment
             Demand”) for such unpaid Obligations. A Payment Demand shall be in writing and shall reasonably specify
             in what manner and what amount Seller has failed to pay and an explanation of why such payment is due
             and owing, with a specific statement that Buyer is requesting that Guarantor pay under this Guaranty.
             Guarantor shall pay such amount within five (5) Business Days following its receipt of the Payment

                                                             Exhibit O       CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 1


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             Demand from Buyer.

             3.        Scope and Duration of Guaranty. This Guaranty shall continue in full force and effect from the
             Effective Date until the earlier of the following: (x) all Obligations have been paid in full (whether directly
             or indirectly through set-off or netting of amounts owed by Buyer to Seller), (y) replacement Performance
             Security is provided in an amount and form required by the terms of the ESA, or (z) the 18-year anniversary
             of the Effective Date]. Further, this Guaranty (a) shall remain in full force and effect without regard to, and
             shall not be affected or impaired by any invalidity, irregularity or unenforceability in whole or in part of
             this Guaranty, and (b) subject to the preceding sentence, shall be discharged only by complete performance
             of the undertakings herein. Notwithstanding anything in this Guaranty to the contrary, Guarantor reserves
             to itself all rights, setoffs, counterclaims and other defenses to which Seller is or may be entitled arising
             from or out of the Agreement, except for defenses (if any) based upon the bankruptcy, insolvency,
             dissolution or liquidation of Seller or any lack of power or authority of Seller to enter into and/or perform
             the Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder
             shall not be released, discharged, or otherwise affected and this Guaranty shall not be invalidated or
             impaired or otherwise affected for any of the following reasons:

                     (i)      the extension of time for the payment of any Guaranteed Amount,

                     (ii)     any amendment, modification or other alteration of the ESA,

                     (iii)    any indemnity agreement Seller may have from any party,

                     (iv)     any insurance that may be available to cover any loss, except to the extent insurance
                              proceeds are used to satisfy the Guaranteed Amount,

                     (v)      any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, receivership, insolvency, bankruptcy,
                              assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization, arrangement, composition or
                              readjustment of, or other similar proceeding affecting, Seller or any of its assets, including
                              but not limited to any rejection or other discharge of Seller’s obligations under the ESA
                              imposed by any court, trustee or custodian or any similar official or imposed by any law,
                              statue or regulation, in each such event in any such proceeding,

                     (vi)     the release, modification, waiver or failure to pursue or seek relief with respect to any other
                              guaranty, pledge or security device whatsoever,

                     (vii)    any payment to Buyer by Seller that Buyer subsequently returns to Seller pursuant to court
                              order in any bankruptcy or other debtor-relief proceeding,

                     (viii)   those defenses based upon (A) the legal incapacity or lack of power or authority of any
                              Person, including Seller and any representative of Seller to enter into the ESA or perform
                              its obligations thereunder, (B) lack of due execution, delivery, validity or enforceability,
                              including of the ESA, or (C) Seller’s inability to pay any Guaranteed Amount or perform
                              its obligations under the ESA, or

                     (ix)     any other event or circumstance that may now or hereafter constitute a defense to payment
                              of the Guaranteed Amount, including, without limitation, statute of frauds and accord and
                              satisfaction.

             4.     Waivers by Guarantor. Guarantor hereby unconditionally waives as a condition precedent to the
             performance of its obligations hereunder, with the exception of the requirements in Paragraph 2, (a) notice

                                                              Exhibit O        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 2


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             of acceptance, presentment or protest with respect to the Obligations and this Guaranty, (b) notice of any
             action taken or omitted to be taken by Buyer in reliance hereon, (c) any requirement that Buyer exhaust any
             right, power or remedy or proceed against Seller under the ESA, and (d) any event, occurrence or other
             circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a surety. Without limiting
             the generality of the foregoing waiver of surety defenses, it is agreed that the occurrence of any one or more
             of the following shall not affect the liability of Guarantor hereunder:

                     (i)          at any time or from time to time, without notice to Guarantor, the time for payment of any
                                  Obligations shall be extended, or such performance or compliance shall be waived,

                     (ii)         the obligation to pay any Obligations shall be modified, supplemented or amended in any
                                  respect in accordance with the terms of the ESA,

                     (iii)        subject to Paragraph 9, any (a) sale, transfer or consolidation of Seller into or with any
                                  other entity, (b) sale of substantial assets by, or restructuring of the corporate existence of,
                                  Seller or (c) change in ownership of any membership interests of, or other ownership
                                  interests in, Seller, or

                     (iv)         the failure by Buyer or any other Person to create, preserve, validate, perfect or protect any
                                  security interest granted to, or in favor of, Buyer or any Person.

             5.      Subrogation. Notwithstanding any payments that may be made hereunder by the Guarantor,
             Guarantor hereby agrees that until payment in full of all Obligations, it shall not be entitled to, nor shall it
             seek to, exercise any right or remedy arising by reason of its payment of any Obligations under this
             Guaranty, whether by subrogation or otherwise, against Seller or seek contribution or reimbursement of
             such payments from Seller.

             6.      Representations and Warranties. Guarantor hereby represents and warrants that:

                             a. it has all necessary and appropriate corporate powers and authority and the legal right to
                                execute and deliver, and perform its obligations under, this Guaranty,

                             b. it is an Affiliate of Seller,

                             c. it has a credit rating assigned by S&P of BBB- or higher, or by Moody’s of Baa3 or higher,
                                to its unsecured, senior long-term debt obligations (not supported by third party credit
                                enhancements), or if it does not have a rating for its senior unsecured long-term debt, then
                                the rating then assigned to such entity as an issuer rating, provided, that if the ratings by
                                S&P and Moody’s are not equivalent, the lower rating shall apply;

                             d. it has a tangible net worth of at least   Trade Secret                                         ,

                             e. it will treat its obligations under this Guaranty pari passu with its senior unsecured debt
                                obligations,

                             f.   Guarantor has subjected itself to the jurisdiction of the state and federal courts of San
                                  Francisco County, California and agrees to be subject to service of process in connection
                                  therewith,

                             g. this Guaranty constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligations enforceable against it in
                                accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy,


                                                                   Exhibit O        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                                    Page 3


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                              insolvency, moratorium and other similar laws affecting enforcement of creditors’ rights
                              or general principles of equity,

                         a. the execution, delivery and performance of this Guaranty does not and will not contravene
                            Guarantor’s organizational documents, any applicable Law or any contractual provisions
                            binding on or affecting Guarantor which would invalidate or materially impair Guarantor’s
                            ability to perform its obligations under this Guaranty,

                         b. there are no actions, suits or proceedings pending before any court, governmental agency
                            or arbitrator, or, to the knowledge of the Guarantor, threatened, against or affecting
                            Guarantor or any of its properties or revenues which may, in any one case or in the
                            aggregate, adversely affect the ability of Guarantor to enter into or perform its obligations
                            under this Guaranty, and

                         c. no consent or authorization of, filing with, or other act by or in respect of, any arbitrator or
                            Governmental Authority, and no consent of any other Person (including, any stockholder
                            or creditor of the Guarantor), that has not heretofore been obtained is required in connection
                            with the execution, delivery, performance, validity or enforceability of this Guaranty by
                            Guarantor.

             7.      Notices under this Guaranty shall be deemed received if sent to the address specified below: (i) on
             the day received if served by overnight express delivery, and (ii) four (4) Business Days after mailing if
             sent by certified, first class mail, return receipt requested. Any party may change its address or email
             address to which notice is given hereunder by providing notice of the same in accordance with this
             Paragraph 7.

                     If delivered to Buyer, to it at:




                     If delivered to Guarantor, to it at:                 [____]
                                                                          Attn: [____]


                       Governing Law and Forum Selection. This Guaranty shall be governed by, and interpreted and
             construed in accordance with, the laws of the United States and the State of California, excluding choice of
             law rules. The Parties agree that any suit, action or other legal proceeding by or against any party (or its
             affiliates or designees) with respect to or arising out of this Guaranty shall be brought in the federal courts
             of the United States or the courts of the State of California sitting in the City and County of San Francisco,
             California.

             9.       Miscellaneous. This Guaranty shall be binding upon Guarantor and its successors and assigns and
             shall inure to the benefit of Buyer and its successors and permitted assigns. No provision of this Guaranty
             may be amended or waived except by a written instrument executed by Guarantor and Buyer. This Guaranty
             is not assignable by Guarantor without the prior written consent of Buyer. This Guaranty is not assignable by
             Buyer without the prior written consent of Guarantor. No provision of this Guaranty confers, nor is any
             provision intended to confer, upon any third party (other than Buyer’s successors and permitted assigns) any
             benefit or right enforceable at the option of that third party. This Guaranty embodies the entire agreement and
             understanding of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior or

                                                              Exhibit O        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                               Page 4


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




             contemporaneous agreements and understandings of the parties hereto, verbal or written, relating to the subject
             matter hereof. If any provision of this Guaranty is determined to be illegal or unenforceable (i) such provision
             shall be deemed restated in accordance with applicable laws to reflect, as nearly as possible, the original
             intention of the parties hereto and (ii) such determination shall not affect any other provision of this Guaranty
             and all other provisions shall remain in full force and effect. This Guaranty may be executed in any number of
             separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original, and all of said counterparts
             taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument. This Guaranty may be executed and
             delivered by electronic means with the same force and effect as if the same was a fully executed and delivered
             original manual counterpart.

                                                        [Signature on next page]




                                                               Exhibit O        CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                                Page 5


DocuSign Envelope ID: F3473CC8-111B-4906-8369-E732278900A0




                     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this Guaranty to be duly executed and
             delivered by its duly authorized representative on the date first above written.

                                                              GUARANTOR:

                                                              [_______]


                                                              By:______________________________

                                                              Printed Name:__________________
                                                              Title:____________________________


                                                              BUYER:

                                                              [_______]


                                                              By:______________________________

                                                              Printed Name:__________________
                                                              Title:____________________________

                                                              By:______________________________

                                                              Printed Name:__________________
             Title:____________________________




                                                             Exhibit O    CleanPowerSF Energy Storage Agreement 2021
                                                              Page 6
