                                                                                             ITEM NO. PH 2
                    CC Regular Meeting
                    AGENDA ITEM REPORT
Meeting:              September 2, 2025
Title:                Introduction of Ordinance 25-10
Presented by:         Brian K. Lee, Deputy City Manager/Community Development Director
Recommendation:       Waive full reading and introduce Ordinance 25-10 entitled, “An Ordinance of the City
                      Council of the City of Covina, California, approving Zoning Code Amendment (ZCA) 25-
                      2 amending Chapter 17.04 Definitions and Chapter 17.54 M-1 Light Manufacturing Zone
                      of Title 17 (Zoning) of the Covina Municipal Code, to add a Definition of Battery Energy
                      Storage System Facility and as a Conditionally Permitted Use in M-1 Zone, Repealing
                      Ordinance 25-04 a Moratorium on Battery Energy Storage System Facility, and Making a
                      Determination of Exemption from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)”.

 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:
As a result of inquiries about placing battery energy storage systems (BESS) within the industrial area, and given
that Covina’s existing zoning code does not have provisions addressing such new land use category, the City
Council adopted Ordinance 25-01. It established an interim moratorium for 45 days on this type of new land use
pending further research and study. Subsequently, the City Council adopted Ordinance 25-04, which extended
the interim moratorium for 10 months and 15 days. Before the interim moratorium expires in May 2026, the City
needs to amend the zoning code to address this new land use category, which is the reason for the proposed zoning
code amendment (ZCA) 25-2 for M-1 Light Manufacturing Zone. On August 12, 2025, the Planning Commission
conducted a public hearing and considered the proposed Zoning Code Amendment (ZCA) 25-2. There were no
participants or public comments at the hearing. The Planning Commission concluded the hearing on August 12,
2025, and adopted Resolution No. 2025-018 PC by a vote (5-0-0), recommending to the City Council the approval
of the Zoning Code Amendment (ZCA) 25-2, repeal Ordinance 25-04, and issue a CEQA exemption.

 DISCUSSION:
The objective is for the City Council to adopt the zoning code amendment, establish new regulations, and repeal
the moratorium ordinance on battery energy storage system facilities. After 30 days from the second reading, the
ordinance establishing regulations for battery energy storage system facilities will be effective, and the
moratorium will be repealed. The proposed zoning code amendment is twofold: one to add a definition of battery
energy storage system facility, and two to add such land use category as a conditionally permitted use under the
M-1 Light Manufacturing Zone. The proposed amendment is to read as follows:

1.     17.04.088 Definition.
       Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) facility. A battery energy storage system facility is an
       electrochemical device that charges or collects energy from the grid or a distributed generation system
       (e.g., power plant) and then discharges that energy at a later time to provide electricity or other grid
       services when needed. Small-scale battery energy storage facilities are stationary storage systems less than
       5 acres that are connected to the distribution system. Large grid-scale battery energy storage facilities,
       comprising more than 5 acres, developed in combination with energy generation facilities such as power
       plants, wind farms, or solar parks, are prohibited.

2.     17.54.030 Uses permitted subject to a conditional use permit:
       E. Battery energy storage system and facility. In addition to the requirements of CMC 17.62.050 through
       17.62.120, the conditional use permit shall not be approved unless the Battery Energy Storage System and
       Facility application addresses operational standards necessary to protect the public health, safety and
       general welfare, including, but not limited to: (i) a Commissioning Plan to document and verify that the
       system and its associated controls and safety systems are in proper working conditions, (ii) Fire Safety
       Compliance Plan, (iii) Operation and Maintenance Manual, (iv) Emergency Operations Plan, (v) Noise
       Study, (vi) Decommissioning Plan, and (vii) Procedural manual for safe shutdown and safe start-up
       following cessation of emergency conditions. Except for a Noise Study, the above-listed plans shall be
       reviewed and approved by the Los Angeles County Fire Department."

The requirement of a conditional use permit (CUP) for a battery energy storage system facility will allow the city
staff, Planning Commission, and the public to thoroughly evaluate whether the uses, operation, and activities
would pose an adverse effect on adjacent sites and surroundings. The CUP process is designed to ensure that
decision-makers have all the necessary information to create requirements to avoid problems and conflicts.

 FISCAL IMPACT:
There is no specific development in conjunction with the proposed Zoning Code Amendment (ZCA 25-2). It is
not possible to quantify fiscal impacts at this time.

  CEQA (CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT):
Pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), staff has analyzed the proposed Zoning Code
Amendment (ZCA) 25-2 and determined that it is exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental
Quality Act (“CEQA”) (Cal. Pub. Resources Code, § 21000 et seq.) and the CEQA Guidelines (Cal. Code Reg.,
tit. 14, § 1500 et seq.) pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3) because it can be seen with certainty
that the proposed (ZCA) 25-2, would not result in, or have a potential for resulting in either a direct or indirect
physical change in the environment, or a reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment, as
defined in CEQA Guidelines Section 15061 (b) (3). The proposed Zoning Code Amendment is an administration
of the Zoning Code in that a land use category (battery energy storage system), including a definition, is proposed
to be added as a conditionally permitted use in the M-1 Light Manufacturing Zone. The proposed Zoning Code
Amendment does not approve any new physical development activity, and any new physical development activity
will require compliance with CEQA Guidelines. Therefore, it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility
that the activity in question may have a significant effect on the environment.

Respectfully submitted,
