The City of = = ; :
a“ . ° City Council Meeting Minutes
Wickliffe June 22, 2056

Following the Pledge of Allegiance, a regular meeting of Wickliffe City Council was called to order by Council
President Gerhardstein on Monday, June 22, 2026 at 7:00 PM in Council Chambers at Wickliffe City Hall.

The following were present at Roll Call:

Council President Randy Gerhardstein

Council Members Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman
Mayor Joseph Sakacs

Law Director Michael A. Kenny, Jr.

Finance Director Michael Matas

Engineer Peter J. Formica

Service Director Dave Krofcheck

Building Commissioner Dino Capra

Fire Christopher Grossman

Excused: Recreation Director Timothy Stopp, Police Chief Jonathon Bush

Resolution 2026-11

RES 2026-11 A resolution recognizing Isaac Petric on his retirement from the Police Department of the City
of Wickliffe, Ohio, commending him for his dedicated service, and wishing him good fortune; and declaring an
emergency

This resolution was read in it’s entirety by Law Director Kenny.
Mayor Sakacs presented the Resolution to Sgt. Petric, noting Sgt Petric has followed in his grandfather's
footsteps, as his grandfather was a Wickliffe Police Officer.

Motion by Levon, seconded by Thielman, that the rules of Wickliffe City Council be suspended and
Resolution 2026-11 be placed on third and final reading.
Discussion: None
Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman
No: None
Motion carried.

Motion by Levon, seconded by Thielman, that Resolution 2026-11 be adopted as presented.
Discussion: Council President Gerhardstein thanked Mr. Petric, his friend, for his service to
the City and wished him good luck in the future.

Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman
No: None
Motion carried. Resolution 2026-11 adopted.

Swearing In of Police Officers

Mayor Sakacs swore in Officers Kyrsten LeMassena and John Anservitz. Both officers were welcomed to the
Wickliffe family and wished the best in their tenure here.

Approval of Minutes

Motion by Levon, seconded by Bala, to allow Councilperson Koski to abstain from voting on the minutes of the
Wickliffe City Council regular meeting of June 8'4, 2026.
Discussion: None
Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman
No: None
Motion carried.


Motion by Levon, seconded by Ball, that the minutes of the Wickliffe City Council regular meeting of June 8*,
2026 be approved as presented.
Discussion: None
Roll Call:

Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Levon, Thielman

Abstain: Koski

No: None
Motion carried. June 8, 2026 regular meeting minutes approved.

Reports and Communications from Mayor/Safety Director
Mayor Sakacs read his written report.

He added that he won the title of Strawberry Shortcake Eating at the Kirtland Strawberry Festival, beating out
the other area Mayors. He noted he won it a few years ago eating blueberries, as he has diverticulitis, but this
year decided to give it a try to “go for it” with the strawberries, and won the actual title.

Reports and Communications from Director of Law

Law Director Kenny had no report. There were no questions for the Law Director.

Reports and Communications from Council President

Council President Gerhardstein stated there was a post on social media by County Commissioner McIntosh. He
noted the Commissioners voted to eliminate the SR2 contract, which was to be in effect until April 15, 2027.
They are hoping to come to an agreement with the six cities included in the original fifty-year-old contract by
dissolving the agreement. Mr. Jaworski asked what Mr. Gerhardstein feels are the sticking points on the
negotiations. Mr. Gerhardstein noted he and the Mayor attended the meetings, and he believes the “add-ons”
are the points of contention. One of these “add-ons” includes partial salaries of four county employees. Mayor
Sakacs noted he spoke to the Commissioner this week and was assured the commissioners are working to
remove some of the “add-ons”. Mayor Sakacs also noted he and the other mayors want to get “the best bang for
the buck”. Mr. Gerhardstein stated the cities are not certain they are getting some of the services they are paying
for. The exit ramp at Rt. 2 is one of the issues — it has been over five months and repairs have still not been
made there. Ms. Koski noted she is surprised they are asking for additional monies as they haven’t even
completed basic maintenance such as removal of a light pole that has been down since January 2003 at the exit
ramp at 305. Mr. Gerhardstein noted that was questioned at a meeting, and the answer was there was not a
truck big enough to handle the pole at the time. Mayor Sakacs stated when he asked the same question, he was
told the County is hoping to receive grant funding to address freeway lighting issues and are waiting on these
funds to address the pole issue. Mayor Sakacs noted they continue to call regarding these and other issues. Mr.
Gerhardstein noted Wickliffe is third, following Mentor and Willoughby, in the amount paid for the contract.
An agreement will have to pass in six city councils, so there is a lot of work necessary. Mr. Jaworski noted he
takes extreme offense to the county “double-dipping” the taxpayers. He stated since they are already paying for
these services, having to pay again is ridiculous. He also noted SR2 benefits the entire county, and all the cities
in the county should be paying for this, not just a few. Mayor Sakacs agreed, noting many others need this
corridor. Mr. Jaworski noted the communities which are not paying are the homes of the [county] engineer
and the commissioners. Mr. Gerhardstein noted he will keep residents informed as things move along.

Additions or Amendments to Agenda

There were no additions or amendments to the agenda.

Administrators

A. Police Chief (Bush) Written Report Submitted
Lt. McCaffrey was present in Chief Bush’s absence. He had no report. Council President Gerhardstein
excused him to the festivities for the newly sworn in officers.

There were no questions or comments for the Police Chief.

Wickliffe City Council Meeting Minutes June 224, 2026 Page | 2


B. Fire Chief (Grossman) Written Report Submitted
Chief Grossman noted there was an unexpected maintenance fee that came up during testing last week on
the SCUBA gear at the station. They discovered deficient high-pressure hoses on eleven of the air-packs.
He spoke with the Mayor and the Finance Director, as this “maxed out” the line item in his budget for
equipment maintenance for 2026. The typical bill is less than a third of what it came to at this time. He
explained that since some of the equipment is aging, he will likely be increasing certain areas of the budget
in 2027 to account for these additional expected costs.

Mr. Jaworski stated the chief requested funding for the dorm project over a year ago, and asked if there has
been any work done on this project. Chief Grossman noted the project has not started yet. Mr. Jaworski
asked why this is delayed. Chief Grossman noted there are two projects which required outside contractors
in the station; one was the replacement of the HVAC unit and the other was the replacement of the failed
diesel exhaust system in the bays. This second project is still ongoing, and has had delays. He noted he
prefers to not have multiple projects requiring outside contractors running simultaneously. He noted the
dorm project is at the top of the priority list and he wants to complete the project. Mr. Jaworski inquired
regarding the HVAC and the chief noted it was the system on the west side of the building which failed in
December of last year. Mr. Jaworski asked if this is the side with the dorms, and the chief noted it is. Mr.
Gerhardstein asked if the quote from the contractor, which must be at least eighteen months old, will still
be honored. The chief noted he has been in contact with the contractors, and believes they are still within
the range, and still “in a good spot”.

There were no additional questions or comments for the Fire Chief.

C. Finance Director (Matas) Written Report Submitted
Finance Director Matas had no report.

Councilperson Jaworski inquired regarding the General Fund Carry Over Balance. Mr. Matas noted the
current unencumbered balance for May was $8.7 Million and was $7.6 Million in May of 2025.

The Finance Director noted he had one concern which he continues to monitor: the income tax collections.
It is currently down $224, 000.00 (4.48%), and he will continue to provide monthly updates on this, as it
is our largest single source of revenue.

Mr. Matas also noted, with regard to our Star Ohio account, as of May 29, 2026, we gained 3.82%. Last
year it was 4.48%, and in 2024 it was 5.45%. He noted we are not gaining as we have. He also noted the
feds did not change the interest rate, for the fourth consecutive time. He will continue to monitor this and
provide monthly updates.

Mr. Gerhardstein asked Mr. Matas to explain the terms of the grant received for the Talmadge Gardens
retention basin. It is a $60,000 grant, of which our portion would be 25%, or $15,000.00. According to
the Engineer and Service Director, this is a big project in the future and this is a preliminary step in that
process. Mr. Gerhardstein asked if there were thoughts regarding the feasibility of this project. Mr.
Gerhardstein asked for clarification that the $60,000 project, of which the City’s cost would be $15,000, is
only for the study regarding a detention basin. He asked if that area is big enough for a retention basin, and
was answered that it is. Mr. Gerhardstein inquired regarding the long-term cost of diverting water to the
basin to make use of it. His goal is to inform Council of the overall cost of the project before they authorize
funds to go toward a study for a project we may not have the money to complete. Mr. Formica noted that
is the purpose of the study — to determine how big a basin would need to be and the method necessary to
accomplish the goal. This is why we put in for a grant to complete a study which will offer possible solutions
as well as determine the cost of those options. Mr. Formica noted that the maintenance would not be
significant, but the excavation and pumping equipment will have a cost. Mr. Gerhardstein asked what the
deadline is to make a decision on the acceptance of the grant. Mr. Formica was unaware of the terms of the
grant, and Mr. Gerhardstein noted this would be discussed after summer recess. Mayor Sakacs noted this
has been discussed in the past, and the purpose is to alleviate some of the flooding that occurs on the north
end of town. Mr. Formica noted it could cost a million, or $500,000 — that is the reason for the study — to
determine what the cost might be. He added that performing the study also puts us in line for additional
future funding of the project. Mr. Gerhardstein asked that Mr. Matas check into the date with regard to
acceptance, and noted this will be brought back in September.

There were no additional questions or comments for the Finance Director.

D. Engineer (Formica) Written Report Submitted
Engineer Formica had no report.

There were no questions or comments for the Engineer.

Wickliffe City Council Meeting Minutes June 224, 2026 Page | 3


E. Service Director (Krofcheck)
Service Director Krofcheck noted three bids were received for street striping last Friday. The lowest was
$23.894.73 from J.D. Striping. Mr. Krofcheck spoke with them this morning, and they will be here after
they complete a job south of here; hopefully after the holiday, weather dependent.

Councilperson Jaworski asked how the pavement did following the rain in the places where grinding was
performed. Mr. Krofcheck noted there is still water pooling in certain spots. He noted he spoke with the
project engineer the other day regarding the area at the top of 300' Street. The excuse was that the water
in that area dissipated after a while, but that will not be the case in the winter. He noted he plans to bring
this to the project engineer’s attention again.

There were no additional questions or comments for the Service Director.

F. Building Commissioner (Capra)
Building Commissioner Capra had no report.

There were no questions or comments for the Building Commissioner.

G. Recreation Director (Stopp)
Recreation Director Stopp was excused.

Audience Participation
Council President Gerhardstein opened Audience Participation to those in attendance at 7:31 PM.

He noted this portion of the meeting is intended for the audience to address the Council and the Mayor, not the
directors. Anyone wishing to address Council must use the microphone, as the meetings are being streamed on
YouTube; they must be acknowledged and give their name and address for the clerk’s record and will be given
a five-minute maximum for their comments.

Mr. Mike Nadolski of 1532 Maple Street came to speak about the driveway he had put in by a

contractor last May. He has photos of what is going on, noting 75% of it is junk. He noted Mr. Capra
has assisted, but his contractor noted the City doesn’t care about his problem. He noted the City
wants homeowners to take care of their properties. He noted he has put over $30,000 into his house.
He has had the problems with his driveway from the first day is was poured. He noticed a coloration
issue, and the contractor noted he should “just keep watering it”, which he did. After this winter, it
has “just fallen apart”. He noted he has photos of the problem. The contractor has been scheduled
to return to make repairs twice and has not arrived either time, and this has been going on since
February. He asked if there is anything that can be done to help homeowners when a contractor tries
“to pull something”. He had a similar problem with a roofer. Mr. Gerhardstein noted since Mr.
Nadolski has been working with Mr. Capra, he is working with the correct department with regard to
the license and bond of the contractor. This is a civil matter between Mr. Nadolski and the contractor,
but Mr. Capra will guide him with regard to what the City may be able to do to assist. Mr. Jaworski
asked if Mr. Nadolski has contacted the Better Business Bureau. Mr. Nadolski has not, but noted
there will be no more yelling between the contractor and himself. Mr. Jaworski also suggested
contacting the State Attorney General as they have done investigations on contractors who do not live
up to their portion of a contract. Mr. Nadolski noted the contractor poured three driveways last May
and has to redo two of them.

Mr. Dave Lawrence of 30112 Truman Road came to speak about his concerns about OR 2025-58

Short Term Rentals. He noted there are issues, and one is two doors down from him. It is an active
Air B-n-B. He stated there are currently five in the City, and he believes that none of them are certified
or permitted. He stated the owner of the one on his street also has one on Empire. Mr. Lawrence
noted the owner applied for a permit but it was denied, as the application was not complete. He is
imploring Council to look over Chapter 769. He is not sure how this benefits the City. He read from
Section 7 regarding the business regulation code, “the city is there to protect the property values
controlling the density of short-term rentals”. He noted we have them and they do not have permits;
he is aware that cease and desist letters have been sent, but have been ignored. He asked if there have
been any citations written or can this be taken to court to hold the owners accountable for not
following our code; and fees/fines are building up and no one is being held responsible. Mr.
Gerhardstein noted he responded to the email that was sent the other day. Mr. Lawrence noted Mr.
Gerhardstein was the only one to respond. Mr. Gerhardstein noted he spoke to the Law Director and
the Police Chief, along with the Building Commissioner about this topic, noting they are working to

Wickliffe City Council Meeting Minutes June 224, 2026 Page | 4


decipher how to interpret and cite offenders, then take them to court. It was noted the ordinance is
still new, but Mr. Lawrence noted it is more than six months old, and some of these were here before
the ordinance. Mr. Lawrence asked why it is not being enforced. Mr. Gerhardstein stated, “Council
makes the rules, and it is up to the administration to enforce them. He noted things are not perfect,
but the administration is working to figure out how to enforce this ordinance. Mr. Lawrence asked if
it could go back into committee for discussion, as many cities have banned short term rentals and
been successful by citing them and taking them to court. He noted the owners have no vested interest
in the city and are only trying to make money. Mr. Gerhardstein noted the Law Director, Police Chief
and Building Commissioner should meet to discuss the issues and if they have any suggestions for
changes to the ordinance, they can recommen4d it be placed back into committee for discussion. Mr.
Lawrence noted it [the ordinance] is currently completely ineffective.

Mr. Lawrence also noted the residents of Wickliffe passed a Police and Fire Safety levy in 2018. He
stated Council denied the request of the Fire Department to replace the ladder truck last year. He
stated the truck was bought in back in 1999 and is twenty-seven years old. The previous truck was
purchased in 1967, lasting thirty-two years. He wondered why we are not re-investing in the City and
giving police and fire the tools they need. He noted NFPA suggests that trucks be retired at twenty-
five years. He understands it is a huge expenditure, but is hoping we are allocating funds for a ladder
truck and looking into financial options, since it will take two to three years once it gets approved to
be built and delivered. Mr. Levon noted Council and the administration are working on a five year
capital plan to allocate funds to be spent wisely. The ladder truck is on that list, as well as the needs
of the Police and Fire Departments and many roads that need repair. Mayor Sakacs noted we are
100% reinvesting in the City. He noted we were hit with almost a million dollar rebate, and the
previous finance director noted, at the time, the ladder truck was not a wise purchase. He noted we
will continue to keep it on the list.

Mayor Sakacs also commented on the Air B-n-Bs. He spent time looking into this, talking to
neighbors, etc. He specifically instructed them to call the police, or call him and he would contact the
police. He noted tickets can be issued and hopefully this will stop sooner rather than later. He noted
Lt, McCaffrey noted the police must abide by ORC when enforcing rules. He also stated that many
Councilmembers were in favor of this ordinance. He also noted there is more good than bad, relating
that he uses Air B-n-Bs when he travels. He believes we will come up with a solution. Mr. Lawrence
noted the weekend with the street lined with cards and all the kids with backpacks was scary. Mr.
Gerhardstein noted he called Chief Bush that night, and the police did respond. Mr. Jaworski asked
the Law Director what would be the process if the ordinance was repealed and short-term rentals
were banned, if these would be grandfathered in. Mr. Lawrence interjected that none currently have
permits. Mr. Kenny would have to look into this. Mr. Jaworski asked Mr. Kenny to look into this.
Mr. Thielman noted he was against Short-term rentals, as he didn’t want one next door to him. He
was convinced that with rules in place, we would enforce the rules. He noted if we cannot enforce the
rules, he would vote to ban them. Mr. Gerhardstein agreed with Mr. Thielman. Mr. Gerhardstein
noted this topic will come back for discussion in September, and hopefully the administration will be
able to work on enforcement. Mr. Thielman added it should be zero-tolerance. Mayor Sakacs noted
if it does get overturned, there needs to be discussion on how to enforce the ban as they were here
before the ordinance, so we need to give Mr. Capra the tools he needs to enforce the rules. Mr.
Thielman noted we continue to put more and more pressure on a building department that basically
has only two people. He noted if we can’t figure out how they can enforce the short-term rentals with
the help of the Police Department, then we shouldn’t have short-term rentals. Mr. Levon noted
Council should not pass any ordinances or laws that the administration cannot enforce. If it cannot
be enforced, we have to get rid of it. Mr. Jaworski noted we have to do whatever we can to keep our
neighborhoods safe and to make families want to stay there and feel welcome.

After multiple calls inquiring if anyone would like to address Wickliffe City Council and there being no reply,
Council President Gerhardstein closed Audience Participation at 7:51 PM.

Committee Reports

The Legislation & Welfare Committee meeting minutes of June 22"4, 2026 were presented by Councilperson
Levon. (see attached)

Wickliffe City Council Meeting Minutes June 224, 2026 Page |5


Motion by Levon, seconded by Koski, to authorize the Law Director to create legislation to enact a
twelve month moratorium on data-centers in the City of Wickliffe.
Discussion: None
Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Koski, Levon, Thielman
No: Jaworski
Motion carried.

Commission Reports

The Parks & Recreation Commission June 17, 2026 Park Tour Notes were presented by Councilperson Bala.
(see attached)

Mr. Jaworski noted there will be no Planning Commission meeting in July.

Old Business

There was no Old Business.

New Business
A. Bid Acceptance for 2026 Pavement Repair Program, Contract B— Pavement Resurfacing

Engineer Formica noted bids were opened at City Hall on Wednesday, June 17th, 2026 for this project. Four
bids were received. The lowest bid was received from Ronyak, Inc., 14376 North Cheshire Street, Burton, Ohio
44021 in the amount of One Million, Twenty-Four Thousand, Four Hundred Twenty-Seven Dollars
($1,024,427.00) which was lower than the Engineer’s estimate of Probable Construction Cost of One Million
One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,100,000.00). Mr. Formica noted the company has done fine work for the
City in the past, and recommends acceptance of this bid as the lowest and best.

Motion by Jaworski, seconded by Levon, to accept the bid of Ronyak, Inc., 14376 North Cheshire Street,
Burton, Ohio 44021 for the 2026 Pavement Repair Program, Contract B — Pavement Resurfacing in an
amount not to exceed One Million, Twenty-Four Thousand, Four Hundred Twenty-Seven Dollars
($1,024,427.00) as the lowest and best bid and to reject all other bids and to authorize the Law Director
to prepare legislation to authorize the Mayor to enter into a contract with Ronyak, Inc. for the 2026
Road Program Contract B.
Discussion: None
Roll Call:

Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman

No: None
Motion carried.

B. Bid Acceptance for 2026 Pavement Repair Program, Contract C— Concrete Slab Replacement

Engineer Formica noted bids were opened at City Hall on Wednesday, June 17th, 2026 for this project. Three
bids were received. The lowest bid was received from TC Construction Co., Inc., 2936 Lynn Drive, Willoughby
Hills, Ohio 44092 in the amount of Seventy Thousand, Five Hundred Eighty Dollars ($70,580.00) which was
lower than the Engineer’s estimate of Probable Construction Cost of Eighty Five Thousand Dollars
($85,000.00). Mr. Formica noted a portion of the funding for this project is from OPWC. He recommends
acceptance of this bid as the lowest and best.

Motion by Jaworski, seconded by Ball, to accept the bid of TC Construction Co., Inc., 2936 Lynn Drive,
Willoughby Hills, Ohio 44092 for the 2026 Pavement Repair Program, Contract C — Concrete Slab
Replacement in an amount not to exceed Seventy Thousand, Five Hundred Eighty Dollars ($70,580.00)
as the lowest and best bid and to reject all other bids and to authorize the Law Director to prepare
legislation to authorize the Mayor to enter into a contract with TC Construction Company, Inc. for the
2026 Road Program Contract C.

Discussion: None

Wickliffe City Council Meeting Minutes June 224, 2026 Page | 6


Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman

No: None
Motion carried.

Ordinances

OR 2026-33 By Title Only An ordinance levying assessments for unpaid delinquent sewer amounts upon
parcels of land in the City of Wickliffe, Ohio THIRD READING

Motion by Koski, seconded by Bala, that Ordinance 2026-33 be adopted as presented.
Discussion: None
Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman

No: None
Motion carried. Ordinance 2026-33 adopted.

OR 2026-37 By Title Only An ordinance authorizing the Mayor of the City of Wickliffe, Ohio to enter into a
contract with Ronyak Paving, Inc. for the 2026 Pavement Repair Program, Contract B - Pavement Resurfacing;

and declaring an emergency

Motion by Ball, seconded by Bala, the rules of Wickliffe City Council be suspended and Ordinance 2026-
37 be placed on third and final reading.
Discussion: None
Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman

No: None
Motion carried.

Motion by Levon, seconded by Jaworski, that Ordinance 2026-37 be adopted as presented.
Discussion: None
Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman

No: None
Motion carried. Ordinance 2026-37 adopted.

OR 2026-38 By Title Only An ordinance authorizing the Mayor of the City of Wickliffe, Ohio to enter into a
contract with TC Construction Company, Inc. for the 2026 Pavement Repair Program, Contract C - Concrete
Slab Replacement; and declaring an emergency

Motion by Thielman, seconded by Bala, the rules of Wickliffe City Council be suspended and Ordinance
2026-38 be placed on third and final reading.
Discussion: None

Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman

No: None
Motion carried.

Motion by Thielman, seconded by Ball, that Ordinance 2026-38 be adopted as presented.

Discussion: None
Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman

No: None
Motion carried. Ordinance 2026-38 adopted.

OR 2026-39 By Title Only An ordinance establishing a moratorium on accepting for filing and
consideration, and/or issuing zoning and/or occupancy permits for any building, structure, use, or change of
use involving Data Centers as a principal use for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months in the City of
Wickliffe, Ohio; and declaring an emergency

Wickliffe City Council Meeting Minutes June 224, 2026 Page | 7


Motion by Bala, seconded by Ball, the rules of Wickliffe City Council be suspended and Ordinance 2026-
39 be placed on third and final reading.
Discussion: None
Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Koski, Levon, Thielman
No: Jaworski
Motion carried.

Motion by Thielman, seconded by Bala, that Ordinance 2026-39 be adopted as presented.
Discussion: None
Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Koski, Levon, Thielman
No: Jaworski
Motion carried. Ordinance 2026-39 adopted.

Resolutions

RES 2026-10 By Title Only A resolution adopting the Tax Budget of the City of Wickliffe, Ohio for the fiscal
year beginning January 1, 2027 and submitting same to the Auditor of Lake County, Ohio; and declaring an
emergency

Motion by Ball, seconded by Bala, the rules of Wickliffe City Council be suspended and Resolution
2026-10 be placed on third and final reading.
Discussion: None
Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman

No: None
Motion carried.

Motion by Thielman, seconded by Koski, that Resolution 2026-10 be adopted as presented.
Discussion: None
Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman
No: None
Motion carried. Resolution 2026-10 adopted.

Resolution 2026-11 was read at the beginning of the meeting. (see page 1 above)

Other Legislation
There was no Other Legislation.

Miscellaneous

This is the last regular council meeting before the Summer Recess.
Regular Council Meetings will resume Monday, September 14", 2026 on the second and fourth Mondays of
the month.

Adjournment

Motion by Levon, seconded by Koski, to adjourn the meeting to Executive Session pursuant to Ohio Revised
Code Section 121.22(G) (3) Conferences with an attorney for the public body concerning disputes involving the
public body that are the subject of pending or imminent court action following a five minute recess.

Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman
No: None
Motion carried. Meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 8:06 PM.

Wickliffe City Council Meeting Minutes June 224, 2026 Page | 8


Motion by Jaworski, seconded by Ball, to reconvene the meeting from Executive Session.

Roll Call:

Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman
No: None
Motion carried. Meeting reconvened at 8:29 PM.

Motion by Jaworski, seconded by Ball, to adjourn the meeting.

Roll Call:
Yes: Bala, Ball, Gerhardstein, Jaworski, Koski, Levon, Thielman
Not None

ng adjourned at 8:30 PM.

CerkofComiy SD Cétincil President and Presiding Officer

Motion carried.

Wickliffe City Council Meeting Minutes June 22™4, 2026 Page | 9
