Spencer Township Trustee Meeting
March 5, 2026

Chair of the Board, Steven A. Kester, called the meeting to order at 7:03pm

Roll Call
Trustee Steven A. Kester present
Trustee Raymond J. Havens present
Trustee Michael B. Hood present

Pledge to the Flag
Minutes

Trustee Hood made a motion to approve the minutes from the February 19, 2026, meeting with
any necessary corrections, Trustee Havens seconded. Roll call vote: Trustee Kester: yes,
Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

Fire

2Fire

8 Rescue/EMS

Chief John Ziehr gave the report.

Fire preventions occurred in the Township in February.

Cardiac monitors continued to be trialed. The department elected to renew its partnership
with Striker Products through an eight-year contract. The contract provides all new monitors
annually along with cots and lift systems. The cost $195,005.35.

Training in endocrine emergencies and cardiac issues. Rapid intervention team training
occurred as well.

Falcon ForgeAl

Brandon Elliott from Falcon ForegAl spoke to the Board about what their company offers
regarding Cyber security and how it could benefit the Township regarding House bill 96.

John Crisp gave a brief presentation outline their statement of capabilities and how their
offerings will put the Township in a position to attain compliance with house bill 96 regarding



Cyber Security. The Trustees took this under consideration and will contact Mr. Elliott if they
would like to move forward.

Whittingham Agency

Shelly Ruiz from the Whittingham Agency gave a brief presentation on life insurance offerings
to non-elected employees at the Township. At no cost to the employers, they offer life
insurance. The Township would withhold the premium and make the payment to the insurance
Company. The Trustees took this under consideration and will contact Ms. Ruiz if interested.

Zoning

Jeff Stopar, Legal Counsel, prepared a moratorium Resolution 2026-03-05 imposing a
temporary moratorium on the approval, establishment or construction of advanced
manufacturing facilities or uses within Spencer township for 12 months. After discussion,
Trustee Hood made a motion to approve the Resolution, Trustee Havens seconded. Roll call
vote: Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

Financials
Receipts $27,596.00
Payments $79,517.25

Fund Balances

General $2,918,007.60
Motor Vehicle License $17,814.77
Gas Tax $64,432.18
Road and Bridge $73,914.75
Fire $199,772.57
Permissive Motor Vehicle $79,954.58
Misc. Special Revenue $1,794.96
Misc. Capital Projects $174,191.65
$3,529,883.06

Trustee Hood made a motion to approve the financials, Trustee Havens seconded. Roll call
vote: Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

An updated Amended Certificate of Estimated Resources was received from the Lucas County
Auditor.

Open to the Public


Cheryl Nissen, Schwamberger, stressed that she is concerned about the earth and what grows
in our Township as should the board. She also mentioned the meetings need to be posted on
the website. She is happy the Township is considering a moratorium.

Laura Brown, Raab Road, reiterated she is in favor of the moratorium. She restated she needs
records from a previous records request: the need for the working copy of the zoning
resolution and how long of a process it took. She wants the documents that were reviewed to
come up with the text amendment decisions, in December she asked about Jacob Barnes’
compensation, credit card statements.

Ms. Brown requested all correspondence between Michael Hood and Matt Hyerman.
She restated she needs all payments made to Glynn Grisdale from Spencer Township.
She requested any non-disclosures that have been signed.

She asked about the article in the Toledo Free Press about the CIC and Trustee Hood explained
the CIC is strictly for Spencer Township where are the JEDZ is for West Winds.

Trustee Hood explained just because the text amendment was put in place that did not mean
the Township wasn’t going to do due diligence on advanced manufacturing and he stated no
one from the Board has ever stated there was going to be a data center in the Township.

Trustee Hood also stated newly introduced HB 646 is about data centers and even the state is
looking at the concerns and the Township is aware of the complaints and concerns. He wanted
the public to know; the Township is not moving haphazardly towards this.

Joyce Sparks, Oak Hill, spoke about all the good things the Township has done. She doesn’t feel
that personal attacks are necessary. Trustee Hood said sometimes it’s a no-win situation when
you are in public office. If you do something good, you were supposed to do it, if you didn’t do
something, why didn’t you do it.

Paul Wise, Shaffer, stated he is all for the moratorium and it will help restore public trust.
Pay the Bills

Trustee Havens made a motion to pay the bills, Trustee Hood seconded. Roll call vote: Trustee
Kester: yes, Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

BZA
No meeting
Road

Trustee made a motion to add Terry Russell on the Township cell phone plan, Trustee
seconded. Roll call vote: Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

Contracts from both Bowers Asphalt and Paving and Vernon Nagel Paving were received back
from the awardees. These contracts were approved at the February 19" meeting. The
Trustees signed the contracts.



Trustee Havens gave a review of their meeting with the County Engineers earlier today.
2027 Roundabout Crissey and East Angola is being installed.

The Township asked for flashing stop signs at Frankfort and Irwin and they were told no due to
low traffic and lack of accidents.

They were given completion dates as the end of summer for the Irwin Road water line.
No chip sealing on Old State Line during July due to traffic from local motorcycle club.

The road department will start distributing letters for Meilke and Schwamberger resurfacing
projects.

It was mentioned that Township MS4 funds are going towards payment of the 10-mile creek
and Swan Creek ditch maintenance. This cost will not appear on property taxes, but the
homeowners will get the benefits.

Trustee Hood made a motion to add Terry Russell to the cell phone plan, Trustee Havens
seconded. Roll call vote: Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

Trustee Hood mentioned that the new truck will be in the township maintenance building as
maintenance on the building is finished.

JEDZ
No meeting
Correspondence

The Board received an invite to attend an upcoming Lucas County Elected Officials Meeting to
discuss the proposed 2026 property tax ballot initiative and its potential impact on Lucas
County and local jurisdictions. The meeting is March 12 at the Springfield Township
Administrative Offices at 3:00pm. Trustee Kester and Trustee Hood stated they will attend the
meeting. Trustee Hood spoke on the movement to stop property taxes.

The Township received updated Cyber Security offerings from the current IT Company,
Triotech.

Nate Reiner requested leasing the property on the corner of Shaffer and Whitehouse Spencer
to allow his cattle to graze. There was some conversation. Trustee Havens asked if it would
deter the possible land swap with the MetroParks. Trustee Kester stated he knows what cattle
does to the land. Trustee Hood expressed he did not think it was a good idea. The Board
decided to deny the request.

Old Business

Second Amendment to Agreement with the State of Ohio, Ohio Rail Development Commission
was reviewed. The amendment increases the amount of the grant from the State of Ohio to
$79,000. Trustee made a motion to approve the amendment, Trustee seconded. Roll call vote:
Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.


New Business

Keith Clonch was interviewed in executive session for a position in the Road department.
Trustee Hood made a motion Keith Clonch should be hired at the state minimum and receive a
salary of $12k/year starting on March 9, 2026. No benefits and he will be hired at the state
minimum for full time. He will be added to OPERS. Trustee Havens seconded. Roll call vote:
Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

Trustee Kester will set up an appointment for Mr. Clonch to meet the maintenance team on
Monday.

Bids were received for work that needs to be completed at the fire station.

Trustee Raymond J. Havens expressed he was recusing himself from this discussion due to a
conflict of interest.

The following bids were received and awarded:
D2 Dodson bid $23,700 for labor and materials to prep and paint all walls.

D2 Dodson bid $31,392 for labor and materials to remove base for the installation of
new LVT flooring and rubber base including walk off carpet in the vestibule.

Trustee Kester made a motion to approve the above work totaled at $55,092, Trustee Hood
seconded. Roll call vote: Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Havens: abstain, Trustee Hood: yes.

The following bids were received and awarded:

PR Construction bid $2151 to provide all labor and materials necessary to remove old
and install new Stallx ADA powder coated steel color mist grey bathroom partition in
same configuration as the old.

PR Construction bid $11,600 for the labor and materials plus removal of old exterior
steel doors, lock sets, closer, transition and panic bars.

Trustee Hood made the motion to approve the above work totaled at $13,751, Trustee Hood
seconded. Roll call vote: Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Havens: abstain, Trustee Hood: yes.

TMACOG is having a meeting tomorrow and both Trustee Kester and Hood along with
Economic Development Director, Jacob Barnes will attend in the Township vehicle.

Trustee Hood made a motion to adjourn at 8:52, Trustee Havens seconded. Roll call vote:
Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.



X X

Dawn E McDonald Steven A. Kester
Fiscal Office Chair of the Board of Trustees

X X

Raymond |. Havens Michael B, Hood
Vice Chair of the Board of Trustees Trustee
