CITY OF FAIRBORN
COUNCIL MEETING
September 6, 2022, at 6:00 p.m.
Council Chambers

COUNCIL MEMBERS Present Absent
Paul Keller, Mayor

Clint Allen, Councilman

Adam Fritzsche, Councilman
Kevin Knepp, Deputy Mayor
Rodney McCubbins, Councilman
Mary Reaster, Councilwoman
Tana Stanton, Councilwoman

Ki

XKKKX
DOOOO000

STAFF MEMBERS PRESENT
Adkins, Anderson, Gehbart, Mayer, Taylor, A. Williams, R. Williams, and Wolfe.
Everyone stood for the Pledge of Allegiance and a moment of silence.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Councilman Allen moved to approve the August 1, 2022, Regular Council Meeting
Minutes. Councilwoman Reaster seconded. Voice vote. Motion carried. Mayor Keller
declared the minutes approved as written. Councilman McCubbins moved to approve
the minutes of the August 8, 2022, Special Council Meeting. Deputy Mayor Knepp
seconded. Voice vote. Motion carried. Mayor Keller declared the minutes approved as
written. Councilman Fritzsche moved to approve the minutes of the August 8, 2022,
Council Work Session, Councilwoman Stanton seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried.
Mayor Keller declared the minutes approved as written.

NEW BUSINESS

ORDINANCE 25-22 AN EMERGENCY ORDIANCE IMPOSING A TEMPORARY
MORATORIUM FOR A PERIOD OF 180 DAYS FROM THE DATE HEREOF ON THE
ISSUANCE OF ANY PERMITS, CERTIFICATES, OR APPROVALS FOR THE
OPERATION OF, OR USE OF ANY PROPERTY FOR A DATA CENTER IN THE CITY
OF FAIRBORN, OHIO.

Deputy Mayor Knepp moved to read Ordinance 25-22 for the first time by title only
declaring an emergency. Councilwoman Stanton seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried.
Mike Mayer, City Solicitor, read Ordinance 25-22 by title only declaring an emergency.

Mike Gebhart, Assistant City Manager, explained this Ordinance requests a moratorium
for 180 days or six months as it relates to Crypto mining or data centers within the City of
Fairborn. He has been doing this job for 15 plus years and he knows nothing about Crypto
mining or data centers. The way it has been explained to him is everyone has heard of


Bitcoin. Apparently, revenue is generated from Bitcoin by mining them. Mining means
that you set up some very elaborate servers in a very large building that takes quite a bit
of energy to keep those servers cool as well as water as part of the cooling process.
Before any of those locate within the City staff would like to bring themselves up to speed
a little better on what those are because quite frankly, they are not environmentally
friendly from initial information we have, nor or are they a significant job creator. So,
these buildings essentially sit unmanned while they do this and only occasionally see a
person come in or out if there is any problem within the facility. Staff asks that Council
grant a six month or 180-day moratorium so that staff can figure out what a data center
Crypto mining operation is and how the zoning code can be adjusted to accommodate
that type of activity. Staff recommends approval of Ordinance 25-22.

Councilwoman Reaster looks forward to hearing Mr. Gebhart’s findings about Crypto
mining.

Councilman Fritzsche stated figuring this out before we get some of these in here is a
good thing. As a clarification, we are not looking for random people that are doing a little
bit of mining out of their house. Mr. Gebhart stated no, this is for commercial operations
city-wide, so no it is not in any specific part of the City.

Deputy Mayor Knepp asked if there are precedents for this around the State. Mr. Gebhart
stated he knows we engaged Shawn Suter who is our zoning attorney and through Mike
Mayer and this was not an unusual request for him. He could say that the entire state of
New York is looking into this and there is the possibility of ballot language that would
prohibit this from happening in the State of New York. It is not just the City of Fairborn
that is looking into this. It is across state lines.

Councilwoman Stanton stated the City participates in the Council of Governments and
asked if this has come up in any of those meetings. Mr. Gebhart stated no. He stated this
is a 180-day moratorium so we can gain more knowledge. Rob Anderson, City Manager,
explained the goal is not to ban these from Fairborn. We are just trying to make sure they
are appropriate when they do come in.

Councilman Allen agrees with being smart about it. Everything that is good is not
necessarily good for you sometimes. It is smart to give ourselves some room.

Mayor Keller looks forward to hearing more about Crypto mining. He also has never
heard of this before.

Councilwoman Reaster moved to adopt Ordinance 25-22 declaring an emergency.
Councilman Fritzsche seconded. Yeas, seven: Reaster, Fritzsche, Allen, Knepp,
McCubbins, Stanton, and Keller. Mayor Keller declared Ordinance 25-22 duly adopted.

ORDIANCE 26-22 AMENDING THE ZONING CODE MAP FROM
CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENT TO PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT AND
APPROVING THE PRELIMINARY PLAN OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT FOR A
RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION LOCATED AT 1838 ARMSTRONG ROAD.

Councilwoman Reaster moved to read Ordinance 26-22 for the first time by title only.


Councilwoman Stanton seconded. Voice vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor,
read Resolution 26-22 by title only.

Mayor Keller set the public hearing of Ordinance 26-22 for Monday, September 19, 2022.

RESOLUTION 47-22 ADOPTING A FIVE-YEAR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.

Councilwoman Reaster moved to read Resolution 47-22 by title only. Councilwoman
Stanton seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor, read
Resolution 47-22 by title only.

Terry Adkins, Public Works Director, explained that he would be presenting the 2023-
2027 Capital Improvement Plan. He explained the City Charter states we must meet
requirements. One of those requirements is to be submitted to you three months prior to
submission of budget. They also must hold a public hearing and they also must have
passage of Resolution by Council. He explained the Five-Year Plan is a detailed set of
projects in a five-year window. This includes major capital expenditures along with
planned projects. It is re-evaluated every year. The plan is fiscally sound. Please
remember this does not represent a firm commitment of funds it is a very fluid document.

He explained throughout the year they have dialogue with the public. Staff also used
Master Plans from Water, Wastewater, Storm as well as the Parks and Recreation plans.
These master plans guide staff in planning for growth within the City and clarifies short
comings in the infrastructure in the City. All projects discussed come from a variety of
funding sources.

He displayed a listing of some of the projects planned from 2023. The August work
session covered the plan in depth.

He explained the Finance Department has reviewed the plan and factored all expenses
throughout the plan. All projects do have the necessary beginning and ending balance in
each fund throughout the Five-Year Plan. All projects do flow appropriately. Staff
recommends approval of Resolution 47-22.

Mayor Keller opened the public hearing.
Mayor Keller closed the public hearing.

Councilwoman Stanton stated she appreciates all the work and effort that goes into this
plan.

Councilman Allen stated there is nothing like having a good plan. He has sat on this
Capital Planning Committee working before and a lot of works goes into that. This was
discussed in depth during the work session.

Councilwoman Reaster appreciates the detailed read ahead. It was helpful for her. She
is a visual person. She appreciates the collaborative effort by the City team in putting
that together.


Deputy Mayor Knepp explained they discussed this plan in work session and Mr. Adkins
makes this look to easy. He thanked all the departments for their work.

Mayor Keller appreciates the effort in developing this plan.

Councilman Fritzsche moved to adopt Resolution 47-22. Councilwoman Reaster
seconded. Yeas, seven: Fritzsche, Reaster, Allen, Knepp, McCubbins, Stanton, and
Keller. Mayor Keller declared Resolution 47-22 duly adopted.

RESOLUTION 48-22 AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF AN AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF FAIRBORN AND PALMER ENERGY.

Councilwoman Reaster moved to read Resolution 48-22 by title only. Councilwoman
Stanton seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor, read
Resolution 48-22 by title only.

Terry Adkins, Public Works Director, stated staff has been working the energy
aggregation for quite some time. Amy and Kirk with Palmer Energy was at the July work
session. He stated Palmer Energy has been headquartered in Toledo since 1980. They
are the provider for the Ohio Municipal League. This Resolution will allow the City
Manager to enter in an agreement to where Palmer Energy will be our sole consultant
moving forward for energy aggregation. We are very hopeful to get a good plan for
electric and natural gas. It will be later in the year before we have that back to Council.
We are working hard, and this is the last step for them to start getting pricing for us. Staff
recommends approval Resolution 48-22.

Council had no questions.
Deputy Mayor Knepp moved to adopt Resolution 48-22. Councilman McCubbins

seconded. Yeas, seven: Knepp, McCubbins, Allen, Fritzsche, Reaster, Stanton, and
Keller. Mayor Keller declared Resolution 48-22 duly adopted

CITIZENS COMMENTS

John Walter, 1481 Meadowlands Drive, stated he was present regarding the group home
that wishes to be put on Graceland Drive. He lives on Meadowlands Drive. He bought
the house in 2000 brand new and when he moved into that home, he was not at any point
in time told or otherwise informed that the neighborhood could end up going to a corporate
situation where group homes would come in. Beacon is a corporation that basically is
funded in a way of being paid by the State for the people they take care of. The work that
they would do on the house to modify it and change it would cause his home to likely lose
value. Also, the fact that the fence going up around the house may or may not stop the
residents from getting out. He lives there because it is a safe neighborhood, but even
today in one week, UD has had three incidences of excellent problems going on down at
the University. We do not need this type of thing here. It could be put elsewhere in the
City of Fairborn without any problem. If Beacon wishes to do it, they can purchase a very
nice section of land and put-up homes that will actual do what they are supposed to do
and will allow them to reintegrate these people back into society.


Rich Rankin, 1437 Graceland Drive, explained the neighborhood of the Meadowlands
and the Sanctuary are hoping Beacon Specialized does not get a permit for operating a
group home at 1460 Graceland Drive. There seems to be some question about a
business that has employees that operates within our suburban residential neighborhood.
That question has not been answered to their satisfaction. Of course, there is a safety
issue with 1675 being in their back yard. Fenced or not, there will be a school with a
football stadium across the interstate. There will be according to Beacon there will be 13-
to 17-year-old children there with mental disabilities in this house. The sounds of traffic
and cheering sports in the complex will make them curious. Earlier this spring a driver on
675 drove off the interstate and crashed through the fence on a house just two doors
north of 1460 Graceland Drive. The car ended up in the properties back yard. Just
another case of the dangers of 1675. There have been many different stories coming out
all the way from corporate and local managers from Beacon. If this project ends up going
through Beacon gets through the many hurdles the state, county, and the city then
Beacon then should be required to give the City and the neighborhood a written list on
what they plan to do and they can have some accountability. He has a gut feeling that
there are some of the City officials that would like to see this issue just go away. He
thinks there are others that would like to do the right thing, but that means that there could
possibly be a lawsuit against them regarding equal and fair housing laws. It may be too
bad and too late for Meadowlands because they don’t have an HOA. Warning to other
zoned developments like ours, you may be next. Beacon employees said they would like
to have four of these in the City of Fairborn. Like he said last time, we will be watching.

Beth Rankin, 1437 Graceland Drive, lives in a single-family development called
Meadowland Estates. The buyer of 1460 Graceland Drive is Beacon Specialize. There
plans are to turn this home into a group home for children. Beacon Specialize is a
business, a for profit business will never be a permanent resident. There will be staff
workers. Beacon will be. Do you get paid to live in your home. How can this be classified.
It is a for profit business. There will never be a permanent resident at this home. It will be
staff workers and disabled mentally handicapped children. The staff workers and children
will phase in and out. Beacon will be paid for housing these children and pay their staff
workers. Again, there will be no permanent residents at this address. She asked Council
if they are paid to live in their home. Does anyone get paid for you to live in your home.
How can this be classified as a residential home. There will be no permanent resident
living there. Beacon Specialize is a for profit business. There are many zoned multiple
family areas in Fairborn. There are many zoned business areas in Fairborn. Many of
these zoned areas have the security a group home needs. Close to the Police and Fire
Departments. These areas would be ideal for a group home. If Beacon Specialize really
cared about their clients, then wouldn't you think the childrens’ safety would be a priority.
If this is allowed by Fairborn, then anyone can sell their home to a company business and
that company business can turn that into whatever business they want. Beacon says
they want to have four group homes in Fairborn maybe they will buy or build in your single-
family development. There are safety concems with having a group home at this location.
It is up against 1675. The new high school and football field are across 675. She has not
talked to a single person regarding this group home that they think it should be placed in
the Meadowlands and that is people not living in the Meadowlands Estates.
Meadowlands is a single-family development. This is not about a group home. This is
about the location of a group home. A home that is for a profit business. It does not belong
in Meadowland Estates. It does not belong in a single-family development. There are
other areas that are better suited for this business/group home.


Chris Everett stated his house is right directly next door, 1424 Graceland Drive. He is a
contractor with CT West Construction, and he was approached by Beacon to do the
renovations on this project. They approached him wanting to do this under the radar with
no permits. Nothing said to the City to try to slip this in and under. He told them he does
not work that way and will not work that way. Permits will be pulled if he does any type
of work. He asked them what type of business it was. They told him it is not a home it is
a business. They said it would be young children that were involved in an automobile
accident. He asked why they weren't in a hospital if they were in an automobile accident.
He responded well they aren't really children in an automobile accident. They have
mental issues. He asked what kind of mental issues, and they would never tell him what
the issues were. With his house being right next door, he asked them what their track
record is for safety and what their protocol is. They said he would need to speak to
someone else about it we can’t give this information out. Being next door, he would like
to know what they plan on doing. He was slated to put in a pool this spring, what kind of
a fence does he need to put up. How does he stope those kids from climbing the fence
they put up to get into his pool. Is he responsible for this. He does not understand what
they are trying to do in a residential neighborhood. He is confused and he is against this
by what they have said. He just does not see it working in there. He is also concerned
because he has a 13-year-old daughter. That is why he asked them about their protocol
for safety and any issues that they have had in any other neighborhoods.

Jackie McCombs 1305 Graceland Drive stated she is concerned about them coming in
as well because they are a business that means additional traffic. You have the staff
workers and other service items that will be coming in. There will be more traffic. Sot
that means more people knowing about our quiet community that is relatively safe. She
admits she is looking at it selfishly. She does not need more people seeing things and
bringing other people into our subdivision. Burglaries have quieted down and she would
like to keep it that way. Some of them are dog walkers and the more traffic as they don’t
have sidewalks in that area makes it a little more dangerous. They don’t need the extra
traffic for multiple reasons. If there is a fence there and someone wants to get out a fence
will not hold a kid in. When your aske Beacon legitimate questions, they just slide you into
one or two of their narratives and no matter what you ask them it always seems to fit in
one or two of their narratives. It makes them very irritating to talk to them. She does not
have a warm feeling about Beacon.

Gaynelle Varvel, 1166 Sanctuary Drive explained she went to the last meeting over on
Graceland and she did not know what to think. She thought she could go to the meeting
and get a little mor information where she had a little more clarity of what direction Beacon
is trying to take it and she left there feeling stressed because there was no clarity. Any
questions that were asked they picked the best scenario to give them an example of what
it would be like. Now, she knows in every situation there is a downside, but they didn’t
have any down sides. She thought just be real with us. She went back home, and she
was still thinking it over. She has no problem with disabilities. She has close friends,
family and coworkers that are living in this world. She has a lot of empathy where that
goes but what she will say is that she has worked in a field where coworkers deal in the
health and mental fields and without going into detail of the people, she is well acquainted
with she did not tell them why she was asking the questions she was just asking it as they
thought she was doing some report of some kind. They let her know it can be scary and
that it would be a change for the neighborhood and the residents. There were from real


horror stories. She is not saying yea or nay, but she is very concerned about this. The
staff of Beacon that was on Graceland that day were on the defense. They were cutting
people off and people were getting irritated. It never got anywhere. She thanked
everyone for the time.

Vicki Layer, 1161 Sanctuary Drive, explained she is a semi-retired college math
professor. She has worked with teenagers for 37 years. She agreed with Gaynelle that
when they went to the meeting, she was initially encouraged to find out what was going
on with them. But like she said they did not answer the questions. They would say we
are going to get to that, and they never did. First, they said the kids are going to be
completely harmless and then later they said there will be some that are schizophrenic
and there will be some children there whose parents can’t discipline them anymore. Well,
if the parents can't discipline hoe do they expect the people who work there to discipline
them. They can’t especially if you have a 17-year boy or a 16-year-old girl who is trying
to be disciplined by a woman who is of smaller stature. They won't listen. It was scary
to listen to them talk because they back peddled a lot. The main thing she is concerned
about is that the children will jump the fence and leave and come over into her
neighborhood and cause havoc with her house and then the value of her house and all
the others in the Sanctuary will plummet. They are living in a very upscale neighborhood
in the sanctuary, and they don’t want the value of their houses to go down. She does not
have anything against handicapped children, but there must be the property setting for it
and the Meadowlands building is not a proper setting.

Karen Harris. 1515 Meadowlands Drive provided a handout for Council of many points.
She echoed everything that she heard so far. There was a lot of back peddling and a lot
of changing the story. It is the corporation that she does not trust. It is not so much the
kids. She has lived behind a child that had disabilities she does know that they are a
handful. If there is a child like the one, she lived behind. He would get in a state where
he would go out and he would be screaming in the middle of the night. He would be
throwing things up in the tree. Sometimes it would come over the fence into their yard.
He was a sweet kid when he was calm, but he was a danger when he wasn’t. She has
no confidence in the ability of Beacon to keep that situation under control. Especially
since they lied about their situation. They did not disclose that they had recently been
bought and they people that the City is dealing with now might not be the people that you
are dealing with later. She left paperwork for Council that is attached as Exhibit “A” to
these minutes.

CITY MANAGER COMMENTS

Rob Anderson, City Manager, reviewed the milestone recipients. He thanked Officer
Frederick for his service to the City and wished him well on his retirement. He announced
that there would be a swearing in ceremony on Monday for Matt Sortsman. He announced
that they have seen some movement by the Ohio and US EPA about the biodigester.
They have been cited for violations.

COUNCIL COMMENTS

Councilman McCubbins. Congratulated the milestone recipients and congratulated
Officer Frederick on his retirement. Fairborn City schools were awarded three prestigious


awards for their Excellence in Financial Reporting. They are very deserving of these
awards. He reminded everyone that school started today. He asked everyone to be
careful when traveling down Maple Avenue. He explained new vaccines are coming out
to fight COVID and reminded everyone to do whatever is needed to keep themselves and
their families safe.

Councilwoman Stanton congratulated the milestone recipients. She has questions about
Ordinance 26-22 and asked if she should prepare those ahead of time. Mr. Anderson
asked that she do that so answers to those questions could be included with staffs
presentation. She thanked everyone that came forward and spoke. She stated the point
was made during citizens comments that it was a corporation that would be looking at
using the home on Graceland. She asked if there are specific guidelines in place for that
process with it being a corporation. Mr. Anderson stated there is a path to follow. This is
a situation where the use guidelines are at the State and Federal level. Mike Mayer, City
Solicitor, explained there is case law, the American’s Disabilities Act that prevent the City
from doing anything. Councilwoman Stanton understands a lot of people are concerned
she would like to call the group again. She tries to see the positive side of things.

Councilman Allen thanked all the citizens who came forward and spoke tonight. He said
it the last time, he appreciates them sharing their heart. He appreciates the City Manger
and City solicitor looking into the matter. It troubles him that the meeting did not go well
with Beacon. He thanked the milestone recipients for this month. He thanked Lee Harris
who has a new baby making their family a little bit bigger. He thanked the Sustainability
Committee for leaning forward to receive that recognition. It is great the Intermediate
School is scheduled to open on the 15*,

Councilwoman Reaster did not want to reiterate the candor and points the community
brought forward. She congratulated the milestone recipients. She discussed the
upcoming Air Force Marathon and Hairborn event. She remined everyone today was the
first day of school and asked everyone to be patient as they work through the kinks. She
reminded everyone of the mum sale at the primary school and encouraged everyone to
get there early.

Councilman Fritzsche congratulated the milestone recipients.

Deputy Mayor Knepp thanked the citizens for their comments. He thanked those who
served on the Five-Year Capital Improvement review committee. He congratulated
Officer Frederick on his retirement. He hopes that he enjoys.

Mayor Keller appreciates those that came forward and spoke. He congratulated the
milestone recipients. He discussed the upcoming Air Force Marathon. It is always a great
event. He thanked Mr. Adkins for all his work on the aggregate so that we can all get a
reduced and competitive rate. He reminded everyone school is back in session. He
appreciates the efforts being made on Maple Avenue and cannot wait for the project to
be completed. He announced the next Council meeting would be September 19, 2022.

ADJOURNMENT



Councilwoman Reaster moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilman Allen seconded.
Yeas, seven: Reaster, Allen, Fritzsche, Knepp, McCubbins, Stanton and Keller. Nays,
none. Motion carried. The meeting adjourned

MELE hi Sbyby

MAYOR (yo CITY OF FAIRBORN





Beacon 411

You May Not Know ....

If you were unable to attend or could not clearly hear all the conversation during the Graceland meeting with
Beacon representatives, you may not have caught that Beacon either withheld, backtracked or misled

Meadowland residents on multiple points:

Omission #1. Beacon Representatives did not disclose that Beacon has recently been purchased by
a large CONGLOMERATE named VISTRIA. The Vistria Group, an investment group aggressively but
discreetly acquires companies Portfolio - The Vistria Group . Their portfolio includes many companies
including but not limited to SCA Pharmaceuticals (an outsourced provider pharmaceutical products to
hospitals and health systems nationwide); BIOCARE (a specialty pharmaceutical distributor); Alacura (a medical
transportation group). ANGEL MEDFLIGHT (An air ambulance) and a number of other companies that deal
with disabilities and Mental/ Behavioral Issues. They also have Investment and Financial Services

companies in their portfolio. Vistria’s most common investment types include secondary buyout (47%) and buyout
(Ibo, mbo, mbi) (20%) and healthcare services (34%) and education (about 14%) . In total, The Vistria
Group has investment group in 10 US states.

In the last 3 years, The Vistria Group has exited 3 companies. The Firm’s most common exit type is secondary buyout
(50%).

his is not the company Beacon portrayed itself to be. Conglomerates are generally very profit
oriented and make sweeping changes and reductions to keep their margins. | am sure you have
noticed that these types of companies generally don’t keep promises if they don’t get their numbers.
Operating under multiple names makes it more difficult to track a conglomerate’s holdings,
transgressions, fines, any questionable activities and holding them accountable.

BackTracking/ Misleading : 1. Beacon Representatives first stated that this was not a business
entering a private single-family neighborhood, it was a family. 2. Next they admitted that it was a
business, but it wasn’t about profit, it was to help disabled kids. 3. When backed into a corner they
admitted in was not a non-profit. 6 or more unrelated people working and/or living under one
roof is not a family — it is an institution (as defined in Merriam Webster, Institution : a facility or

establishment in which people (such as the sick or needy) live and receive care typically in a
confined setting and often without individual consent or ability to freely leave.

Omission #2: Beacon Representatives presented a narrative where their presence would not affect
neighborhood traffic. There would not be unknown people coming and going because they would
have 2 adults on premises for 12.5 hour shifts. They did not mention that there would be traffic from

doctors, psychologists, nurses, physical therapist, speech therapist, respiratory therapist, directors and










