                                    CITY OF VANDALIA
                                       April 20, 2026
                                        City Council
                                  Study Session – 6:00 PM

CITY OF VANDALIA
Council Study Session Minutes
Municipal Building
333 Bohanan Drive
Monday, April 20, 2026
6:00 P.M.

Councilmembers Present: Mayor Richard Herbst, Vice Mayor Corey M. Follick,
Councilmember Emily Bradford, Councilmember Cindy Doogan, Councilmember Rick Ford,
and Councilmember Aaron Hathaway.

Councilmember Absent: Councilmember Amber Aivalotis-Weaver

Others Present: Katie Wahl, Kurt Althouse, Rob Cron, Angela Swartz, Thai Do, Brian Krimm,
Chad Follick, Alicia McCracken, Bridgette Leiter, Mike Hammes, Ben Borton, Kayla
Sensenbaugh, Dale Vanpelt, Don Hutchison, Susan Henry, Doug Scott, Benjamin Prill,
Christina Budich, Sherry McConnaughey.

Mayor Herbst called the Study Session to order at 6:00 p.m.

Monday, April 20, 2026

Items on this evening's Council Meeting Agenda
Mayor Herbst called for questions or comments regarding items on this evening’s Council
agenda. There were none.

Ordinance: Assessments January, February and March
Mrs. Leiter advised Council this emergency ordinance assesses properties for delinquent
accounts related to storm water fees, trash collection, delinquent sewer & water, weed cutting
and property maintenance. There were no comments or questions from Council.

Monday, May 4, 2026

Resolution: Asphalt Roller for Public Works
Mr. Borton advised Council the 2026 Capital Improvement Budget includes $82,000 for the
replacement of an aging 1997 asphalt roller used by the Public Works Division for paving and
utility repairs. After evaluating three comparable units and receiving operator input, the
Bomag BW 138 AD-5 was selected as the preferred option due to performance and value.
Approval is requested to waive formal bidding and purchase the unit through Sourcewell
cooperative pricing from Southeastern Equipment for $65,359, including trade-in and an
extended 84-month warranty at no additional cost. There were no questions or comments
from Council.




                                              1
Resolution: Rec Center PA & Audio System
Mrs. Sensenbaugh advised Council the Parks and Recreation Department proposes
upgrading the Recreation Center’s failing and outdated audio/PA system, which currently has
limited functionality, unreliable components, and no compatibility with the City’s Mitel phone
system. While the project was originally budgeted at $75,000, further evaluation determined a
more comprehensive, centralized system is needed; of the two proposals received—iVideo
Technologies ($106,044.98) and Low Voltage Solutions ($87,321.06)—staff recommends
iVideo despite the higher cost due to its full system integration, ease of use, scalability, and
reduced long-term maintenance. The additional ~$31,045 will be covered by reallocating
funds from other projects, and approval is requested to waive formal bidding and proceed with
the iVideo purchase through the State of Ohio cooperative purchasing contract. There were
no comments or questions from Council.

Resolution: Moratorium for Data Centers
Mr. Cron gave a presentation to City Council on a proposed moratorium regarding data
centers seeking direction from City Council on how to address these uses in the zoning code.
There was a brief discussion regarding the length of the moratorium with Council agreeing to
one year after the passage of a Resolution to allow Planning Commission and City Council to
undertake and review information on the effects of Data Centers and review and study the
Ordinances of the City of Vandalia, including zoning and business regulations as such related
to that use. There were further discussions regarding amending tonight’s Council agenda to
include the moratorium for Data Centers. There were no further questions or comments from
Council.

Resolution: Moratorium for Discount Stores
Mr. Cron gave a presentation to City Council on a proposed moratorium regarding discount
stores seeking direction from City Council on how to address these uses in the zoning code.
There was a brief discussion regarding what initiated this request, the potential for unintended
consequences for anti-development, Council looking out for Vandalia’s future, staff seeking
direction from Council on what regulations to change, the length of the moratorium, the
language of the moratorium, the distance between discount stores, any effect on preexisting
discount stores, reviewing the zoning code where they are permitted now to see if it makes
sense for the comprehensive plan, review the process the Planning Commission and Board of
Zoning Appeals are using for variances when making recommendations and communicating
with the residents of Vandalia. Council agreed to a 180 day moratorium for purposes of the
Resolution, the term “Small Box Discount Stores” shall be construed to mean retail stores
between 3,000 and 15,000 square feet that sell at retail, directly to the consumer, a limited
assortment of new physical goods and other consumer products, including food or beverage
for off premises consumption, that generally cost the consumer less than $10.00 and that
does not dedicate at least 15% of shelf space to fresh food and produce, but does not include
Fuel Stations or contain a prescription pharmacy. There were no further questions or
comments from Council.

Resolution: Moratorium for Gas Stations
Mr. Cron gave a presentation to City Council on a proposed moratorium regarding gas
stations seeking direction from City Council on how to address these uses in the zoning code.
There was a brief discussion regarding the eleven current standards fuel stations must meet,
if a moratorium is needed or if the code needs to be adjusted, setbacks from residential
neighborhoods, limited spots for future gas stations in the City with the current zoning,




                                               2
neighborhood business zoning for fuel stations, currently three properties that have submitted
plans for pre-application review for fuel stations. Council agreed to have staff look at the
current zoning code and standards to see if it needs adjusted rather than pass legislation for a
moratorium.

Discussion

Ordinance 84-01 – Rules and Time Limitation of Public Comment (Mr. Althouse)
Mr. Althouse advised Council the City Council meetings are organized and governed by
Chapter 111 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Vandalia and were last amended by
Ordinance 84-01 regarding Order of Business, Time Limitation of Speakers, and Attending
Section Regarding Destruction of Ballots. City Council desires to conduct meetings and
sessions in an orderly and timely fashion and to attend to matters of public business with
reasonable time, place, and manner with restrictions that are necessary to regulate this
limited public forum. Local governments vary in their method and time restrictions for public
comment during meetings. Mr. Althouse advised Council a sample of rules from the
Montgomery County Board of Commissioners and a Public Comment Form were provided as
a sample in the packet. This method ensures meetings are conducted in an orderly,
respectful, and efficient manner. Mr. Althouse advised he was seeking direction from
Council. There was a brief discussion regarding a sign in sheet with a topic for the public to
include when they sign in, the Council meetings to be inviting and for the public to feel free to
come and speak, the rules of public comment posted or attached to the agenda, the rules of
public comment also needs to be applied to the Board of Zoning Appeals as well as the
Planning Commission. Council agreed they preferred the form the Montgomery County Board
of Commissioners use for their meetings, with a few changes and the clean-up of chapter
111, removing destruction of ballots and issuing a new Ordinance.

March 2026 Financial Reports
Cognizant of Council’s duty to monitor the City’s financial activity, Mayor Herbst introduced
Mrs. Leiter to timely provide financial information for Council’s review and analysis. Mrs.
Leiter reminded Council the financial reports were previously provided in their council
packets. Mrs. Leiter reviewed the January monthly reports in detail. She began by reviewing
the Statement of Revenues and Expenditures: March 31, 2026, in detail, which included
revenues and expenditures for the General Fund, the Police-Fire-Street CIP Fund, Golf Fund,
Water Fund, and Sewer Fund. Mrs. Leiter reviewed the March cost recovery data for the golf
course, recreation center, Cassel Hills Pool, and the Fund Statement reports in detail dated
March 31, 2026. Council indicated approval of all reports.

Legislative Calendar
Mayor Herbst solicited comments or questions on the Legislative Calendar. There were
none.

Study Session adjourned at 7:03 p.m.

Angela Swartz
Executive Assistant
Deputy Clerk of Council
937.415.2256
aswartz@vandaliaohio.org




                                                3
www.vandaliaohio.org




                       4
