              The Council of the City of Vandalia Council Meeting Minutes


                                     April 20, 2026


Councilmembers Present: Mayor Richard Herbst, Vice Mayor Corey M. Follick,
Councilmember Emily Bradford, Councilmember Cindy Doogan, Councilmember Rick
Ford, and Councilmember Aaron Hathaway.


Councilmembers Absent: Councilmember Amber Aivalotis-Weaver


Others Present: Katie Wahl, Kurt Althouse, Rob Cron, Angela Swartz, Thai Do, Brian
Krimm, Chad Follick, Alicia McCracken, Bridgette Leiter, Mike Hammes, Ben Borton,
Kayla Sensenbaugh, Dale Vanpelt, Don Hutchison, Susan Henry, Doug Scott, Benjamin
Prill, Christina Budich, Sherry McConnaughey.


Mayor Herbst called the council meeting of the Council of the City of Vandalia to order
at 7:09 p.m. Mayor Herbst called for a moment of reflection followed by the Pledge of
Allegiance.
It was moved by Vice Mayor Follick, seconded by Councilmember Doogan to amend the
agenda to include Resolution 26-R-27 A Resolution Imposing A Temporary Moratorium
On The Acceptance, Consideration And/Or Granting Of Any Zoning, Occupancy, Or
Other Permits Or Applications Relating To Data Centers Within The City Of Vandalia,
motion passed 6-0.
      Approval of Previous Minutes:
The Council Study Session Minutes from February 2, 2026, and the Council Meeting
Minutes from February 2, 2026, were approved as presented.
      Communications, Petitions and Awards:
      Administrative Professionals Day - April 22, 2026
      Mr. Althouse recognized the Administrative Professionals from the various
   departments and divisions within the City of Vandalia.
      Introduction: Nick Sorice, Zoning & Planning Coordinator
      Mr. Althouse introduced Nick Sorice, Zoning & Planning Coordinator who began
   employment April 20, 2026.
      Recognition: American Legion 668, donation to Star-Spangled Celebration
      Mrs. McCracken recognized members of American Legion Post 668 for their
   donation to the Star-Spangled Celebration.
      Proclamation: Arbor Day
      Mayor Herbst presented a proclamation to the Director of Parks and Recreation
proclaiming Friday, Apri 24th as Arbor Day in the City of Vandalia.
      Public Hearing: None
      Comments from Interested Citizens:
      Mayor Herbst called for comments from interested citizens asking if anyone
              The Council of the City of Vandalia Council Meeting Minutes


                                     April 20, 2026


would like to speak, to please state their name and address for the record slowly and
clearly. Mayor Herbst advised in accordance with Ordinance 84-01, Time Limitation on
Speaking, no person shall be allowed to speak for longer than five minutes on the same
matter until every other member desiring to speak on that matter has had an opportunity
to do so. Anyone wishing to make a comment shall wait for recognition from him before
beginning to speak, and all comments need to be addressed to him. Mayor Herbst
advised this is an opportunity for everyone to make statements. It is not the time or place
for a question-answer debate or dialogue, adding comments that amount to personal
attacks of any kind will not be permitted. Mayor Herbst advised only the speaker
recognized to speak shall have the floor, asking others to please be respectful and refrain
from talking among themselves while someone else is speaking. Doug Scott, 237 S.
Dixie Drive, addressed Council with concerns of corrupt cops in Vandalia, decimation and
harassment because of his service dog, the RTA bus driver and the Senior Center staff
questioning him about his service dog certification, his apartment complex issues, dog
waste laws, Beaver fever spreading diseases to dogs, other wildlife and humans. Mayor
Herbst addressed Mr. Scott advising him to set up an appointment with the City Manager.
Dale Vanbelt, 116 West Vanlake Drive, addressed Council, thanking Council for their
service and for resolving the dumpster issue between East and West Vanlake Condo
Association. Mr. Vanbelt complimented Council on the good job they are doing.
   CITY MANAGER’S REPORT
       Information Items:
       Mr. Althouse shared On Thursday, May 7th, National Day of Prayer will be held
at First Light Church from 8:00 am - 10:15 am. Breakfast will begin at 8:00 am in the
Fellowship Hall – Main Building and the Prayer Service will begin at 8:45 am in the
Sanctuary. The event is free to the community. To RSVP, call 937-898-3801. Live Stream
at www.firstlight.church.
       Action Item: None
       Old Business: None
       Resolutions:
       26-R-25 A Resolution Approving A PUD Final Plan For Section Three Of The
   Redwood Vandalia Subdivision Generally Located At 3900 Park Center Drive.
   Ms. Wahl read Resolution 26-R-25 by title. Mr. Althouse advised Council the
   applicant, Redwood Vandalia, requests the approval of a Final Development Plan for
   Phase III of the Redwood Vandalia Planned Unit Development. The request involves
   one parcel totaling 18.30 acres located at 7100 Park Center Drive in the City of
   Vandalia. If approved, the Final Plan would result in the creation of ten new multi-
   family residential structures and 59 new residential dwelling units with associated
   infrastructure and amenities. On March 24th, 2026, the Planning Commission voted 4-
              The Council of the City of Vandalia Council Meeting Minutes


                                      April 20, 2026


   0 to recommend approval of the proposed Final Plan. It was moved by Councilmember
   Bradford, second by Councilmember Hathaway to approve Resolution 26-R-25,
   motion passed 6-0.
      26-R-26 A Resolution Authorizing The City Manager To Enter Into A Full-Service
   Street Lighting Agreement With Miami Valley Lighting, LLC. Ms. Wahl read Resolution
   26-R-26 by title. Mr. Althouse advised Council the City of Vandalia is part of a
   consortium of cities through the Miami Valley Communications Council (MVCC) that
   negotiates with Miami Valley Lighting, LLC (MVLt) and DPL Energy Resources, Inc.
   (nka “AES Ohio”) for the maintenance and operational expense of streetlights
   throughout the City. Vandalia’s total cost for the street light contract in 2025 was
   $159,437. Through negotiations between MVCC and MVLt, a new seven-year
   contract is proposed for January 1, 2026, through December 31, 2032, with some
   language revisions regarding pole coverage and installation, existing installations,
   lighting design standards, billing and payments, utility meter charges, fixture inventory,
   maintenance, smart lighting pilot project, and rate structure. The rate structure
   proposed for the seven years is: 2026 - 5.5%, 2027 – 4.0%, 2028 – 3.25%, 2029 –
   2.75%, 2030 – 2.75%, 2031 – 2.75%, 2032 – 2.75%. There were no comments or
   questions from Council. It was moved by Vice Mayor Follick, second by
   Councilmember Ford to approve Resolution 26-R-26, motion passed 6-0.
      26-R-27 A Resolution Imposing A Temporary Moratorium On The Acceptance,
   Consideration And/Or Granting Of Any Zoning, Occupancy, Or Other Permits Or
   Applications Relating To Data Centers Within The City Of Vandalia. Ms. Wahl read
   Resolution 26-R-73 by title. Mr. Althouse advised City Council has expressed an
   interest to impose a moratorium on any proposed Data Centers for the coming 365
   days in order to give staff the appropriate time to develop zoning regulations at the
   guidance of Council so those can be established for any future Data Centers
   proposals. There were no comments or questions from Council. It was moved by
   Councilmember Hathaway, second by Councilmember Doogan to approve Resolution
   26-R-27, motion passed 6-0.
      Ordinances – First Reading: None
      Ordinances – Second Reading: None
      Ordinances – Emergency Reading:
      26-07 An Ordinance Approving Individual Assessments Amounts And Directing
The Finance Director Or Her Designee To Certify The Amounts To The County Auditor
For Collection And Declaring An Emergency. Ms. Wahl read Ordinance 26-07 by title.
Mr. Althouse advised this emergency ordinance assesses properties for delinquent
accounts related to storm water fees, trash collection, delinquent sewer & water, weed
cutting and property maintenance. There were no comments or questions during public
              The Council of the City of Vandalia Council Meeting Minutes


                                      April 20, 2026


comments. There were no comments or questions from Council. It was moved by Vice
Mayor Follick, second by Councilmember Bradford, to approve Ordinance 26-07,
motion passed 6-0.
       Reports from Boards and Commissions: None
       Mayor Herbst reviewed the March 2026 Bill Listing $2,672,266.10 Monthly
Expenses over $25,000 and Monthly Purchasing Card Detail in the amount of $24,263.68.
He solicited comments or questions. There were none.
    Council Comments

Mr. Althouse addressed Mr. Vanbelt, redirecting his praise to Mr. Rob Cron, Assistant
City Manager, who inspected the dumpster issue and contacted Rumpke resolving the
issue quickly and swiftly. Mr. Vanbelt thanked Mr. Cron.

Councilmember Bradford made a motion to excuse Councilmember Amber Aivalotis-
Weaver from the meetings tonight. Vice Mayor Follick seconded the motion. All members
present voted yes. Motion passed 6-0.

Councilmember Doogan congratulated all the Administrative Assistants for their hard
work, welcomed Mr. Sorice and thanked American Legion Post 668 for their generous
donation, adding they do a great deal for the Vandalia community.

Vice Mayor Follick shared his disappointment with the Buzzing Around the Park event
being canceled due to the weather on Saturday giving staff kudos for their hard work
setting up the event, the multiple departments’ involvement and the continuation of staff
providing events and activities for the community. Vice Mayor Follick echoed Mr.
Vanbelt’s sentiments, encouraging citizens who have complaints or concerns in the City
to contact City staff directly so they can get the issue or problem resolved, giving kudos
to Mr. Cron for resolving the issue quickly.

Mayor Herbst echoed everything else that had already been said by other Council
members.

At 7:45 p.m., Mayor Herbst advised it had been recommended that Council enter into
Executive Session to consider the purchase or sale of real property. It was moved by Vice
Mayor Follick, second by Councilmember Doogan. All members present voted yes.
Motion passed 6-0.

Adjourned into Executive Session at 7:46

Executive Session adjourned 8:29 pm

The Regular meeting was adjourned at 8:29 p.m.
             The Council of the City of Vandalia Council Meeting Minutes


                                   April 20, 2026




                                         APPROVED:



                                         Richard Herbst, Mayor



ATTEST:
__________________________________

Angela Swartz, Deputy Clerk of Council
The Council of the City of Vandalia Council Meeting Minutes


                      April 20, 2026




            This page intentionally left blank.
