Village of Clinton
Regular Council Meeting

Tuesday, June 16, 2026

Council President Ross Blankenship called the meeting to order on Tuesday, June 16, 2026, at
7:00 PM in Clinton Village Hall. The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Marissa Gensimore and
recited by those present.

Roll Call: Council Members Present: Tom Knepper, Mike Boggs, Rita Joseph, John Henry, Ross
Blankenship, and Kent Goch. Mayor McDaniel was absent.

Others Present: Tabi Barbu, Janice Godwin, Larry Crookston, Diane Gunter, Jackie Goch, and
Marissa Gensimore, residents.

Approval of Minutes
A motion was made by Mr. Knepper to approve the minutes of June 2, 2026, second by Mr. Boggs.

Roll Call: Boggs, Joseph, Blankenship, Goch, Henry, and Knepper voted yes. Motion passes.

Unfinished Business — No unfinished business.

Mayor’s Communications
No report.

Council Communications and Council Committee Reports

Mr. Knepper reported that the Community Newsletter came out and on the back page there were
Village articles about the America 250 event on July 5, Applefest, and an article about Rain
Gardens.

Planning for the America 250 Celebration is coming along, making great progress and made a
great contact on Saturday. A little Running Railroad will be provided — a motorized cart that looks
like a train with caboose cars to transport people from the parking lot to the event.

Mr. Blankenship remarked that Mr. Knepper is going above and beyond on this — doing a great
job.

Trail Head Pizza will be participating and will need some volunteers to do that. Gordon’s, Purdy
Paws, Rusty Rails and others have made contributions. There is another musical act on board as
well.

Mr. Knepper asked for more funds, $2,500, at this time if council approves. It would go into the
Community Development fund and whatever is not used, back into the General Fund.

Mr. Knepper made a motion to add $2,500 to the Community Fund for the America 250
Celebration Event, second by Mr. Blankenship.

Roll Call: Joseph, Blankenship, Goch, Henry, Knepper, and Boggs voted yes. Motion passes.


Citizens Comments

Tabi Barbu reported that the Community Action Group has decided to hold the Community Garage
Sale on the 4" Saturday of July. She asked for confirmation and approval on a couple things.
What Village spaces we can use, and if we could shut down North Street between Gordon’s and
this side of the park — the back-alley road. Members of Council were in favor of that.

We are going to start advertising and charging people, which is refundable, if they clean up after
the event. Mr. Ross asked about police presence. This will be looked into and that it is properly
patrolled. Right now, it will be from 7 to 4 PM. This will be confirmed.

Mr. Blankenship made a motion to allow the Citizens Group to close North Street and use Village
property, second by Mrs. Joseph.

Adding to the motion, as requested by Council, Mrs. Goch proposed that Main Street may be best
to close down ~ from the Drive Thru towards Fulton. There was discussion about both. We don’t
want to affect the business.

Mr. Blankenship wanted to address the motion first tonight about North Street and if we need to
address Main Street, do it at another meeting.

Roll Call: Knepper, Boggs, Joseph, Blankenship, Goch, and Henry voted yes. Motion passes.

Mrs. Goch said they will prepare a map too with the layout at a later date. Halloween/Trunk or
Treat will hopefully be downtown too.

Regarding parking, Mr. Boggs indicated that the car shows used to be in the narrow green space.
He was not sure if this area was Village property, as it could be lined like a parking lot if the action
committee thinks it is a good idea.

Mr. Crookston said he spoke to the Mayor in May and the Mayor had indicated he was going to
advise council of the noise on Crookston Lane. The neighbor’s noise is so loud, that he had to
come to Council for their help. The high caliber rifle discharge is directly behind Mr. Crookston’s
house. He said that this is not personal — it is about economics and property value. He feels he is
entitled to have tranquility and preservation of property values. He does not want this shut down.
It’s not about guns. He feels our legislation is too broad. He drafted some restrictions that he feels
should go into our noise ordinance. He has been on Planning here at the Village and knows how
amendments happen and was part of the effort to do the noise ordinance about 15 years ago. Mr.
Boggs asked Mr. Crookston to provide administration with the draft restrictions and to send to
admin@clintonoh.gov.

Mrs. Gensimore approached council and thanked them for acting so quickly on the data center
legislation. Now Council and the legal department has the chance to come up with something
more permanent. She said three readings are not always necessary and encouraged them to pass
this legislation tonight under suspension as Council has the power to do that.

Mrs. Gensimore asked about the memorandum of understanding that was to come from Summit
County about the useless piece of stuff they put in our basement for the third mile project. It just
gives the County space in our building to use. She asked if the unit was in our building and Mr.
Knepper said it was his understanding that it has not been installed yet. No one on council knew
the status on the unit or memorandum of understanding.

She asked when Council approved the YouTube channel. She was told it has been discussed in
meetings in the past and if we upload enough meetings, it’s free.


Mrs. Gensimore stated that New Franklin hired Marshal Pitchford as their solicitor. She asked
about negotiating for the police contract if that would be a conflict. Mr. Goch said Mr. Pitchford
had no involvement with our existing contract — it went through New Franklin’s Council.

Mr. Blankenship agrees it’s a conflict. We need to keep an eye on this. Mrs. Gensimore said
Marshal and his law firm’s integrity is not in question.

Resolutions and Ordinances

Resolution No. R-26-06

A Resolution Implementing a Moratorium on the Development of Data Centers within the Village
and Declaring an Emergency.

Mr. Goch asked about a motion to waive the three-reading rule.

Mr. Blankenship said this is very important but does not think a data center will be here ina month.
The moratorium has a time limit - six months. If we wait for two more meetings, it just adds
another month onto the moratorium. He wants to wait and have a third reading. We are not open
to talk about this now. It is renewable, but a month before it expires.

Mr. Goch made a motion to waive the three-reading rule, second by Mr. Blankenship.

Mr. Knepper said the moratorium does not say someone cannot come and talk to us about a data
center. It just says we will not issue permits. Mr. Boggs said that’s what a moratorium is — we
won’t listen to soliciting from outside people.

Roll Call: Knepper, Joseph, Blankenship, and Goch voted yes. Boggs and Henry voted no. Four
to two.

Mr. Goch felt Section 1 and 2 appear contradictory. It also says we won’t issue permits. Mr.
Blankenship says these data centers move quick. Mr. Boggs said there are two Village committees
that need to meet and agree on this first. We are not helpless — we can still hear what they say.
Mr. Goch said it takes a public entity a lot more time to stop something than it takes a private entity
to get something going. Mr. Boggs said they cannot just do it. It has to go through three
committees.

Rita Joseph made a motion to adopt Resolution No. R-26-06. Second by Mr. Goch.

Roil Call: Joseph, Blankenship, Goch and Knepper voted yes. Boggs and Henry voted no. Four
to two.

New Business — No New Business.

Council General Discussion

The flagpole picture/rendering was Mr. White’s idea and Mr. Blankenship thinks it’s fantastic.
Instead of where it used to be, after trees are gone, place the flagpole behind the gazebo and add
the other poles (Ohio Flag and POW flag) next to it. To do the whole thing with the block and
stone, will cost about $3,350. Kevin will be doing the work as there is no labor listed.

Mr. Blankenship made a motion to allow Mr. White to spend $3,350 to move forward with the
gazebo/flagpole idea, second by Mr. Henry.


Roll Call: Knepper, Boggs, Joseph, Blankenship, Goch and Henry voted yes. Motion passes.

Mrs. Joseph asked about the logs over at the old school. She was told they belong to the Wood
Guy and he will be selling and they should be gone soon.

Presentation of Purchase Orders and Bills for Approval

Mr. Knepper made a motion to approve both sets of bills, second by Mr. Goch.
Roll Call: Joseph, Blankenship, Goch, Henry, Knepper and Boggs voted yes. Motion passes.

Mrs. Joseph made a motion to adjourn and was seconded by Mr. Goch. Meeting adjourned at 7:47
PM.

ae

a

Mayor Bud McDaniel Ross Blankenship, Counti-President

aE hak

Leah Weirick, Fiscal Officer

