Minutes of June 9, 2026

Record of Proceedings
The Washington Township Board of Trustees regularly scheduled meeting held at Washington Township
Administration Building, 6200 Eiterman Road, Dublin, Ohio, on June 9, 2026, at 6:00 p.m., with Mr. Stu
Harris, Vice Chairman, calling the meeting to order, and it opened with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Roll call – Mr. Charles Kranstuber, Chair – Absent
             Mr. Stu Harris, Vice Chair – Present
             Mr. Jan Rozanski, Trustee – Present
Swearing-In of Arthur Green, Colton Hinch, Blake Wilfong, and Jaxon Swank as Full-Time Firefighters:
Mr. Harris administered the oath of office to the following:
    • Arthur Green as Full-Time Probationary Firefighter/EMT-B, badge pinned by his wife Aquetta.
    • Colten Hinch as Full-Time Probationary Firefighter/Paramedic, badge pinned by his girlfriend
          Alex.
    • Blake Wilfong as Full-Time Probationary Firefighter/EMT-B, badge pinned by his fiancé
          Mackenzie.
    • Jaxon Swank as Full-Time Probationary Firefighter/EMT-B, badge pinned by his mother Alaina.
          Chief Donahue highlighted that Jaxon joins his brother Kasey in being pinned with the same
          badge that was worn by their father, Charles, having given his time, strength, and ultimately his
          life in service to this community. Jaxon will carry on his father’s legacy, wearing the badge over
          his heart.
Chief Donahue opened the ceremony by emphasizing the significance of the oath and the honor
represented by the badge. Each firefighter introduced family and friends in attendance. Chief Donahue
further noted that the Trustees and Township Administrator have invested in programs that support the
physical, emotional, and mental well-being of firefighters and their families. He encouraged each family
to reach out if ever in need of assistance and emphasized the department’s commitment to taking care
of one another, both on and off duty.
Franklin County Deputy Sheriff’s Report:
Deputy Burton Haren with Franklin County Sheriff’s Office (FCSO) submitted a written and verbal report
to the Trustees for May 12 through June 9, 2026, including an update on the following:
    • During this period, there were twenty-four (24) Total Calls for Service / Self-Initiated Activity, ten
          (10) Total Reports Taken, and four (4) Total Arrests / Citations:
                o Deputy Haren noted that the FCSO Traffic Crash Unit is investigating a fatal crash that
                    occurred within the Township at mile marker 15 on I-270 on May 20.
                o One theft was reported. The suspect may also be the victim of identity theft.
                o Deputy Haren reported that he has been reassigned to the Crash Investigation Team. He
                    will continue serving as the Township’s liaison to the FCSO and will provide written
                    reports to Mr. Richter if he is unable to attend regularly scheduled meetings.
                Deputy Haren nominated Washington Township Fire Chief Emeritus Gene Bostic for the
                Sheriff’s Citizen Star Award. He explained that the award recognizes Mr. Bostic’s tireless
                work, volunteerism, and service throughout the community. Mr. Bostic will be recognized
                and presented with the award at a luncheon later this year. Append #001
Opportunity for Residents to Speak:
Mr. Bostic provided a brief update on the Monterey Square project. He indicated that Dublin is
reviewing the final development plan, which is expected on the Planning and Zoning agenda in July.
Additionally, Mr. Bostic indicated that he met with Mr. Richter the previous week to review Township
records regarding Rings Cemetery on Cosgray Road. He noted the map and handwritten documentation
identify approximately eighty-three burial sites by name and date. Mr. Bostic will request a bid for the
restoration project from the contractor who completed the renovation of Dublin Cemetery. He also
expressed his appreciation to Wendy Johnson for connecting him with a local Scoutmaster.
Resolution to Conclude Jonathan P. Smith’s Employment as Part-Time Firefighter/Paramedic for the
Purpose of Accepting Full-Time Employment Elsewhere:
Motion:
Mr. Rozanski introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
A RESOLUTION CONCLUDING JONATHAN P. SMITH’S EMPLOYMENT AS PART-TIME FIREFIGHTER /
PARAMEDIC
WHEREAS, the Board of Township Trustees of Washington Township hired Jonathan P. Smith on June 20,
2024, and;
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees for Washington Township recognizes Jonathan P. Smith has voluntarily
resigned his position to accept full-time employment elsewhere.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of Washington Township, Franklin,
Delaware, and Union Counties, State of Ohio:
         Section 1: The Board of Trustees hereby approves the resignation of:
                  Name:                        Jonathan P. Smith
                  Position / Department: Firefighter-Paramedic / Fire
                  Classification:              Part-Time
                  Effective date:              June 1, 2026
         Section 2: Jonathan P. Smith is eligible for rehire;
         Section 3: It is hereby found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                    relating to the passage of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
                    Board and that all deliberations of the Board and any of the decision making bodies of
                    the Board of Trustees which resulted in such formal actions were in meetings open to
                    the public in compliance with all legal requirements of the State of Ohio.
         Section 4: All prior legislation, or any parts thereof, which is/are inconsistent with this
                    Resolution is/are hereby repealed as to the inconsistent parts thereof.
Mr. Harris seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington Township
Trustees who were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted June 9, 2026.                       #2026.06.09.001
                                                                                                 Append #002
Resolution to Create, Establish, and Adopt the Washington Township Cybersecurity Policy:
Discussion:
Mr. Richter emphasized that the Township has long addressed cybersecurity; however, this policy is
necessary to comply with House Bill 96, enacted in 2025, which requires political subdivisions to adopt a
written cybersecurity program. Responding to Mr. Harris, Mr. Richter confirmed the policy was reviewed
by the Township’s insurance provider, IT consultant, and legal counsel.
Motion:
Mr. Rozanski introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
A RESOLUTION CREATING, ESTABLISHING, AND ADOPTING THE WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP
CYBERSECURITY POLICY
WHEREAS, HB 96, signed by Governor DeWine in June 2025, created Ohio’s new cybersecurity law for
political subdivisions under R.C. 9.64 (eff. September 30, 2025); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to R.C. 9.64, all political subdivisions must begin reporting cybersecurity incidents
to the Ohio Department of Public Safety and Auditor of State; and
WHEREAS, R.C. 9.64 also requires political subdivisions to adopt a cybersecurity program to protect
against potential cybersecurity threats; and
WHEREAS, the deadline for townships to adopt a cybersecurity program is July 1, 2026; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of Washington Township now wants to create, establish, and adopt a
cybersecurity policy to protect the Township’s confidential data and to comply with R.C. 9.64.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of Washington Township, Franklin,
Delaware, and Union Counties, State of Ohio:
         Section 1: The Board of Trustees hereby creates, establishes, and adopts its Cybersecurity Policy.
                   A copy of the Policy will be kept on file with the Township Administrator. The Policy
                   may be amended, from time to time, to conform with evolving state cybersecurity
                   laws and technological advancements.
         Section 2: Pursuant to R.C. 9.64(E), the Washington Township Cybersecurity Policy shall not be
                   considered a public record under R.C. 149.43 to ensure the safety of the Township’s
                   digital infrastructure. Any public record requests for the Cybersecurity Policy shall be
                   denied accordingly.
         Section 3: It is hereby found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                   relating to the passage of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
                   Board and that all deliberations of the Board and any of the decision making bodies of
                   the Board of Trustees which resulted in such formal actions were in meetings open to
                   the public in compliance with all legal requirements of the State of Ohio.
         Section 4: All prior legislation, or any parts thereof, which is/are inconsistent with this
                   Resolution is/are hereby repealed as to the inconsistent parts thereof.
         Section 5: This Resolution shall take effect at the earliest time allowed by law.
Mr. Harris seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington Township
Trustees who were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted June 9, 2026.                       #2026.06.09.002
                                                                                                 Append #003
Resolution to Approve the 2027 Tax Budget Appropriations:
Discussion:
Mr. Richter explained that the Tax Budget is an annual requirement due by July 15. He highlighted
several items, including the removal of the LinkUs Grant from the 2027 budget after being utilized in
2026, transfers from the General Fund into the Fire Fund, and the delay in receiving tax settlements
from Franklin County following a change in the tax due date that coincided with the implementation of a
new county system. He noted that the quarterly review of the Capital Improvements Plan is scheduled
for the following week and discussion will likely include a $250,000 contribution toward the new
computer-aided dispatch (CAD) system adopted by the Northwest Regional Emergency Communications
Center (NRECC).
Motion:
Mr. Rozanski introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE 2027 TEMPORARY BUDGET APPROPRIATIONS
WHEREAS, the levels of resources have been identified for the 2027 fiscal year, and
WHEREAS, appropriations planning and consultation within the Township has been accomplished; and
WHEREAS, the Township’s Fiscal Officer, Administrator and the Fire Chief are now prepared to present
the 2027 Temporary Budget; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the 2027 Temporary Appropriations and the Fiscal Operating,
Capital and Debt Service Budgets of Washington Township (Franklin, Delaware and Union Counties,
Ohio), for fiscal year 2027 as supported in the accompanying documentation and approved by the
Trustees, Fiscal Officer, Administrator and the Fire Chief, to make expenditures within the projected
income levels, provided that bills and payrolls shall be submitted to and approved for payment upon
resolution of the Board; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Fiscal Officer be instructed to incorporate the Temporary Budget
Resolutions, and all supporting documents into the minutes and appendices of this meeting, and to file
these materials with the official records of this Township.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all formal actions of this Board concerning and relating to the passage of
this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the Board and that all deliberations of the Board
and any of the decision-making bodies of the Board which resulted in such formal actions were in
meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal requirements including Section 121.22 of the
Ohio Revised Code.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this Resolution shall take effect and be in force as the earliest time
permitted in law.
Mr. Harris seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington Township
Trustees who were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted June 9, 2026.                    #2026.06.09.003
                                                                                              Append #004
Motion to Authorize the Township Administrator to Enter into an Agreement with Knox Company for
the Purchase of the KeySecure System, Cost Not to Exceed $38,743:
Discussion:
Chief Donahue outlined the increased security provided by the electronic KeySecure System compared
to the physical key currently in use. The electronic key automatically deactivates after 45 seconds if not
used, reducing the potential for misuse. Responding to Mr. Rozanski, Chief Donahue confirmed the cost
is for upgrading Washington Township’s equipment only. Individual business owners will be responsible
for upgrading business-owned equipment.
Motion:
Mr. Rozanski moved to introduce and authorize the Township Administrator to enter into an agreement
with Knox Company for the purchase of the KeySecure System, cost not to exceed $38,743, seconded by
Mr. Harris. Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township Trustees who were present
voting Aye.                                                                               #2026.06.09.004
                                                                                              Append #005
Motion to Authorize the Township Administrator to Enter into an Agreement with West Jefferson
Heating/Plumbing/Electric for the Replacement of HVAC at Station 95, Cost Not to Exceed $15,300:
Discussion:
Chief Donahue noted this board action follows the email he sent to the Trustees in May regarding the
complete failure of the HVAC system at Station 95. He explained that the system was original to the
station. Responding to Mr. Rozanski, he confirmed the replacement will be funded through the Capital
Improvements Fund. Mr. Richter added that contingency funding is being established for emergencies
such as this until all capital projects have been programmed into the new Capital Improvements Plan.
Motion:
Mr. Rozanski moved to introduce and authorize the Township Administrator to enter into an agreement
with West Jefferson Heating/Plumbing/Electric for the replacement of HVAC at Station 95, cost not to
exceed $15,300, seconded by Mr. Harris. Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township
Trustees who were present voting Aye.                                                     #2026.06.09.005
                                                                                         Append #006
Motion to Approve Meeting Minutes:
Mr. Rozanski moved to introduce and approve the minutes from the May 12, 2026, Board of Trustees
Meeting, seconded by Mr. Harris. Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township
Trustees who were present voting Aye.                                                   #2026.06.09.006
                                                                                            Append #007
Motion to Approve Consent Agenda:
Mr. Rozanski moved to introduce and approve the Consent Agenda as presented and as follows,
seconded by Mr. Harris:
       o Bills: May 15, 2026                  $ 205,968.07
       o Bills: May 29, 2026                  $ 94,601.19
       o May 2026 Electronic Payments $1,476,870.75
       o May 2026 Medical Payments            $ 271,123.87
       o Payroll: May 22, 2026                $ 611,279.27
       o Payroll: June 5, 2026                $ 653,216.71
       o Payroll: Monthly June 5, 2026 $           9,980.84
       o April 2026 Monthly Report
Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township Trustees who were present voting Aye.
                                                                                        #2026.06.09.007
                                                                                            Append #008
Round Table Discussions:
Township Administrator Eric Richter:
    • Mr. Richter provided an update on the Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) meeting held May 14 and
       the Zoning Commission meeting held May 20.
            o The BZA discussed and approved two variance requests for the construction of a new
                home at 6927 Rings Road.
            o Sitting as the Architectural Review Board, the Zoning Commission approved the
                architectural review for the new home at 6927 Rings Road.
            o The Zoning Commission received an introduction to the proposed Gateway Crossing
                shopping center development application and supporting materials. No formal action
                was taken pending comments from the Franklin County Planning Commission, which is
                scheduled to review the proposal the following day. Because the Township has not
                processed a rezoning application in many years, Mr. Richter noted that he has engaged
                Greg Dale of McBride Dale Clarion to ensure the Township’s review of the rezoning
                application and coinciding proposed development is comprehensive. He emphasized the
                significant impact the proposal could have on the character of the State Route 161
                corridor.
    • Mr. Richter attended a meeting with Dublin representatives and Houchard Road residents. The
       primary request was for Dublin to consider applying the ID-6 zoning designation to land adjacent
       to the Houchard Road residential neighborhoods. Dublin Councilmember Wendy Johnson,
       liaison to Washington Township, confirmed that the first reading of the ID-6 District occurred
       during the previous evening’s Dublin City Council meeting. Rezoning of the land abutting
       Houchard Road is anticipated in July. Residents requested that the Trustees draft a letter to
       Dublin City Council prior to the July meeting encouraging consideration of the ID-6 zoning
       designation for the adjacent properties. Mr. Richter provided the Trustees with a draft letter.
        Following the review and in consideration of the timing, Mr. Harris and Mr. Rozanski agreed that
        the letter should be sent.
    • Mr. Richter explained that he has received comments from residents adjacent to the Dublin
        Road properties transferred to LLC ownership at the end of December 2025. The property
        owner cut down all trees on the adjoining parcels and demolished the stone wall along Dublin
        Road. Although the owner has been responsive to email correspondence, the remaining debris
        has not been removed. Following discussion regarding the Township’s next steps and vendors
        used for other nuisance properties, Mr. Richter stated he will contact the property owner again
        requesting removal of the debris and outlining potential enforcement options, if necessary.
Chief John Donahue:
    • Chief Donahue presented the monthly report for May.
    • He commented that the potential constitutional amendment to abolish property taxes is not
        expected to obtain enough signatures to be placed on the ballot this year.
    • Chief Donahue introduced Firefighter Sam Sotariades as the incoming union president following
        the retirement of former president Firefighter Chad Reed.
    • Chief Donahue expressed his appreciation for the partnership between the Township and
        Dublin. Prior to demolition, Dublin permitted the department to conduct search and rescue
        operations in an acquired structure.
    • Invitations for the internal and external stakeholder meetings scheduled for July 13, as part of
        the strategic planning process, will be distributed soon. External stakeholders will include
        representatives from homeowners associations, Dublin City Council, the Board of Trustees, and
        other community partners.
    • The Fire Prevention Bureau partnered with Dublin last month to conduct food truck inspections
        as permitted by the Fire Code.
    • Chief Donahue provided an update on the structure fire at the Asherton of Dublin apartment
        complex. The three-alarm fire affected a 16-unit building. On behalf of the department, Chief
        Donahue expressed his appreciation to all partner agencies while emphasizing the crucial role of
        One Dublin in assisting displaced residents. He noted that representatives from One Dublin and
        Washington Township Community Safety Liaison Megan Schiff will be invited to a future
        meeting in recognition of their outstanding response.
    • Chief Donahue outlined a busy Memorial Tournament week, during which the department
        responded to four small electrical fires on the tournament grounds and a house fire on
        Springburn Drive. Fortunately, the homeowners were preparing to leave for the tournament
        when they noticed the small attic fire, limiting the damage to approximately $10,000 to
        $15,000. Chief Donahue thanked Township personnel for their additional efforts throughout the
        tournament and noted that the Prevention Bureau conducted more than eighty temporary tent
        inspections each day.
    • ForeFest drew approximately 6,000 attendees on Friday night and approximately 8,000 on
        Saturday. Chief Donahue noted the event remained safe with very few incidents.
    • Several weeks ago, crews responded to a mercury incident at a doctor’s office on Frantz Road.
        The Environmental Protection Agency was contacted to oversee the cleanup. As a precautionary
        measure, blood tests have been conducted for personnel who responded to the incident.
    • Chief Donahue provided an update on the upcoming transition to a new computer-aided
        dispatch (CAD) system for dispatching. He noted that all participating agencies will share the
        project cost and that Dublin is applying revenue from the cell phone usage tax toward the
        project to reduce the cost for all agencies.
    • Township personnel have been recognized by OhioHealth for their actions on three separate
        occasions: assistance during Survivors’ Day in May, response to a motor vehicle crash at Avery
        Road and Woerner Temple Road in December of the previous year, and response to a
        motorcycle crash on I-270 last July 4.
    • Chief Emeritus Gene Bostic and former City of Dublin Manager Tim Hansley will participate in
        Honor Flight the following day. Chief Donahue expressed his appreciation for their dedicated
        service to the Township and the Dublin community.
Human Resources Manager Catherine Grossman:
    • Ms. Grossman expressed her appreciation to Mrs. Lindsay Hummer for assisting with the update
        of the Township’s recruitment video.
    • Ms. Grossman provided an update on the current part-time hiring process. Of the sixty-two
        applicants who successfully completed the Physical Agility Test, fifty-five participated in first-
        round interviews, with nineteen advancing to the second round. Ms. Grossman noted that the
        first-round interviews were conducted over four days and acknowledged Township personnel
        for the time and attention they dedicated to this important process.
    • The Township will host its Employee Appreciation Luncheon June 23-25. One luncheon will be
        held each day to accommodate the three shifts. Administration will prepare the meal as the
        station personnel rotate through the Administration Building.
Fiscal Officer Scott Melody:
    • Mr. Melody noted that the month of May is ready to be closed.
    • He introduced Payroll/Finance Specialist Vanessa Wolfe and Accounting Assistant Shenna
        Drugan, who were in attendance.
    • Mr. Melody is working to schedule the required audit for August or September.
    • Mr. Melody commended the department for its outstanding representation of both Washington
        Township and the City of Dublin on a national stage during the Memorial Tournament.
Trustee Jan Rozanski:
    • Mr. Rozanski remarked that “Chief Leatherlips strikes again,” referencing the heavy rain and
        wind that affected the final day of the Memorial Tournament.
Trustee Stu Harris:
    • Mr. Harris recognized Wendy Johnson, Dublin City Councilmember and liaison to Washington
        Township. Responding to Mr. Rozanski’s inquiry, Councilmember Johnson confirmed a former
        estate on Dublin Road is being divided into multiple lots as part of an approved development
        plan. Although tree removal was approved as part of the project, the developer is required to
        replace an equivalent linear amount of trees in accordance with the approved plan.
Adjourn Meeting:
Mr. Harris adjourned the meeting of June 9, 2026 at approximately 7:18 p.m.                #2026.06.09.008




_____________________________________                         _______________________________
Mr. Charles Kranstuber, Chair                                         Mr. Scott Melody, Fiscal Officer
