                                                                                            March 4th, 2026



RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS

Minutes of the Vermilion Township Board of Trustees’ Regular Meeting

Held Wednesday, March 4th, 2026



The Pledge of Allegiance was given.

The meeting was called to order by Chairman Kenneth Baughman at 6:30pm.

The roll call resulted as follows: Mr. Kenn Baughman, Mr. Don Rowe & Mr. Keith Sexton were present.

The February 18th, 2026 Trustees’ Regular Meeting Minutes & the February 26th Trustees’ Special
Meeting Minutes were approved as written. 20260304-01

Vermilion Township Fire Chief Frank Triana reported 52 runs for February & reports have been
submitted to the state. Runs include: EMS-45, public assist-1, odor of gas-2, struck gas line-1, vehicle
fire-1, commercial fire alarm-1, motor vehicle crash-1. Chief’s Car 800 jet-pack was replaced. Vasu
Communications completed annual maintenance on all truck radios and portables. The I Am Responding
laptop for the fire-bay screen will be replaced due to the current one not functioning.

Vermilion Township Administrator Kurt Johnson reported contacting J&J Door to address issues with the
bay doors at the Road Crew garage and a few windows in the bay doors of the Fire House. Herk
Excavating has accepted the Stanley Road Project and signed the “Notice of Award”. Thank you to all the
companies that bid on the project and they are encouraged to bid on a future project. The Township’s
property and liability insurance company OTARMA has made their MORE (Managing Ohio Risk Exposure)
Grant available for $1000.00. The road safety signs from Bain Enterprises would be a great use of this
grant.

Rowe made a motion to apply for the OTARMA MORE Grant for the road safety sign from Bain
Enterprises. Sexton seconded the motion. Baughman, Rowe & Sexton voted to accept the motion.
20260304-02

Vermilion Township Fiscal Officer Stephanie Johnson has received the Amended Certificate of Estimated
Resources from the Erie County Auditor and 2026 Permanent Appropriations can now be approved.
Appropriations are as follows:

 Fund:
 1000      General                                                                        $564,646.00
 2011      Motor Vehicle License                                                           $90,000.00
 2021      Gas Tax                                                                        $205,175.00
 2031      Road & Bridge                                                                  $815,835.00
 2111      Fire & EMS                                                                     $494,258.00
 2231      Permissive MVL                                                                  $30,000.00
 4901      Misc. Capital Projects                                                         $123,372.10

           2026 Total                                                                   $2,323,286.10


                                                                                           P a g e 1|5
                                                                                               March 4th, 2026



Baughman introduced Resolution 2026-05 Establishing Permanent Appropriations for 2026 and moved
for its adoption. Rowe seconded the resolution. Baughman read the resolution: Now, Therefore, be it
resolved, by the Vermilion Township Board of Trustees’, for the current expenses and other
expenditures of said Board of Trustees during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2026, the following
sums be and the same are hereby set aside and appropriated for the several purposes for which
expenditures are to be made for and during said fiscal year. Baughman, Rowe & Sexton voted to adopt
the resolution. 20260304-03

Baughman introduced Resolution 2026-06 Approving a Twelve-Month Moratorium on Receiving,
Processing, Issuing or Approving of Any Application for A Zoning Permit for NAICS 518 – Data Processing,
Hosting and Related Services (Data Centers) Under the Vermilion Township Zoning Resolution #32-10;
and moved for its adoption.
WHEREAS, Section 519.02 of the Ohio Revised Code empowers a board of township trustees to impose
reasonable zoning regulations for the interest of the public health, safety and welfare of the Township
on the uses of land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, or other purposes in the unincorporated
territory of the township; WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of Vermilion Township, Erie County, Ohio
(“Board of Trustees”) is committed to preserving the safety, health and welfare of Vermilion Township;
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees has concerns, such as health impacts, noise pollution, water
consumption, utility cost increases, transformation of land use and public infrastructure capacity,
associated with data centers, which can lead to the diminishment of the overall health, safety and
welfare of Vermilion Township; WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees desires to issue a moratorium on
receiving, processing, issuing or approving of any application for a zoning permit for NAICS 518 – Data
Processing, Hosting and Related Services (Data Centers), for a temporary period of time, not to exceed
twelve (12) months from the date of passage of this Resolution, while Vermilion Township undertakes a
review and/or study of the Vermilion Township Zoning Resolution #32-10 (“VTZR”) and considers
necessary and appropriate text amendments to the VTZR to ensure the preservation of the safety,
health and welfare of Vermilion Township; and WHEREAS, Board of Trustees will be able to propose and
enact any necessary and reasonable amendments to the VTZR to protect the health, safety and welfare
of Vermilion Township more effectively if a moratorium is in place;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF VERMILION TOWNSHIP: THAT, the
Board of Trustees hereby approves a temporary moratorium, not to exceed twelve (12) months from
the date of passage of this Resolution, to the receiving, processing, issuing or approving of any
application for a zoning permit for data centers (NAICS 518 – Data Processing, Hosting and Related
Services) (“Data Centers”) in Vermilion Township under the Vermilion Township Zoning Resolution;
THAT, the moratorium shall expire prior to its natural expiration date set forth above upon the earlier
of: (i) further action by the Board of Trustees repealing the moratorium, or (ii) the effective date of VTZR
text amendments satisfying the goals of the moratorium; and THAT, during the moratorium, Vermilion
Township staff shall be prohibited from receiving, processing, issuing or approving of any application for
a zoning permit or other approval of Data Centers on any real property in Vermilion Township; THAT, in
furtherance of this Resolution, the Township Administrator and Township Zoning Inspector are directed
to study the concerns of the Board of Trustees, to review the VTZR, and, if deemed necessary, to
prepare reasonable text amendments to the VTZR for consideration by the Board of Trustees, THAT, the
adoption of any amendments to the VTZR shall be in compliance with the process set forth in Article 8 of
the VTZR; and THAT, this Board of Trustees hereby finds and determines that all formal actions relative
to the adoption of this resolution were taken in an open meeting of the Board of Trustees; and that all
                                                                                              P a g e 2|5
                                                                                               March 4th, 2026



deliberations of this Board of Trustees which resulted in formal action, were taken in meetings open to
the public in full compliance with applicable legal requirements, including Section 121.22 of the Ohio
Revised Code. Rowe seconded the resolution. Baughman, Rowe & Sexton voted to adopt the resolution.
20260304-04

Baughman introduced Resolution 2026-07 Authorizing The Board Of Trustees To Enter Into A Contract
With Herk Excavating of Vermilion, Ohio To Complete The Stanley Road Drainage Rehabilitation Project.
WHEREAS; the Vermilion Township Board of Trustees have a duty to maintain township roads and
township roadside drainage systems and in keeping with the provisions of ORC 5589.06; and WHEREAS,
the Vermilion Township Board of Trustees accepted sealed bids for the Stanley Road Drainage
Rehabilitation Project, which were opened and read aloud during the General Business Meeting of
February 3rd, 2026; and WHEREAS, the bid submitted by Herk Excavating, 1955 E. Liberty Ave.,
Vermilion Ohio was the lowest and best bid received at $149,578.30; and WHEREAS, the Erie County
Engineer&#39;s Office has reviewed the bids and has recommended awarding the Stanley Road
Drainage Rehabilitation Project to Herk Excavating, Vermilion, Ohio; and the contract instruments to be
made have been reviewed by the Erie County Prosecutor’s Office for correctness and sufficiency.
WHEREAS, the Vermilion Township Board of Trustees finds it in the best interest of the Township for the
proper maintenance of all Township roads and roadside drainage systems. WHEREAS: that no work shall
be performed until such time as all required bonds, certificates and other instruments required by the
Fiscal Officer are presented as current and on file with the Vermilion Township and that final payment
will be made only after a statement of satisfactory completion is executed by the Township
Administrator or the Roads Department Foreman.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT; the Vermilion Township Board of Trustees awards the Stanley
Road Drainage Rehabilitation Project to Herk Excavating, Vermilion Ohio, as per the specifications
detailed in the plans and bid documents prepared by the Erie County Engineer&#39; Office and attached
hereto as Exhibit A for a total fee and amount not to exceed $149.578.30. IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED: that
this Resolution is hereby declared to be an Emergency Measure necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, safety and welfare of this township. The reason for the
emergency is to facilitate the prompt awarding of the contract so that work may immediately begin
within an optimal time frame conducive to both the weather and traffic. Rowe seconded the resolution.
Baughman, Rowe & Sexton voted to adopt the resolution. 20260304-05

For Correspondence: An email was received from Erie Regional Planner Tim King requesting commission
appointment updates. Johnson and Baughman replied with the revised status. An email was received
from the Erie County Emergency Management Agency regarding the 911 Financial Report. An email was
received from the Erie County Health Department scheduling their District Advisory Council meeting.
Baughman and Rowe are attending.

Baughman opened the floor to the audience and reminded everyone on the meeting rules.

Bill Via from West Lake Road says his group called TEAM are advocating for lower taxes and encouraged
residents to get involved with the Township.

Erie County Commissioner Matt Old from Mason Road said Erie County is the only county in Ohio to
suspend the county portion of property taxes. The pie chart on residents’ tax bill will show this. This year
the Ohio General Assembly gave the authority for more tax relief. The board voted to give an expanded
homestead exemption to senior citizens who qualify and also doubled the owner occupancy exemption
                                                                                              P a g e 3|5
                                                                                               March 4th, 2026



for people who live in their own homes. This maxes out the tax relief allowed. For all the jurisdictions in
Erie County (nine Townships, seven school districts, five villages and three cities) the combined budget
for 2025 was $750 million. A Blue-Ribbon committee of local representatives was formed and tasked
with finding out if anything could be done more efficiently to reduce that number. Local fire and police
Chiefs, trustees school officials, etc. were consulted to look at all aspects. Old has been impressed with
everyone working together and praised the Trustees for asking the county commissioners to help with a
feasibility study for the fire/EMS department; which could also help with a possible levy. Old will be
meeting with the City of Vermilion Mayor, the Sandusky City Manager and the Milan Village
Administrator to talk about regionalizing the water and sewer systems. All these systems are extremely
out of date. Old stated the County doesn’t have zoning, but praised the Township for working with Erie
Regional Planning on updating the zoning codes.

Ken Burkins of West Lake Road said his group has officially formed a Political Action Committee (PAC),
with the goal of being advisory to the trustees; plus promoting regionalizing while maintaining quality
services. Burkins thanked Baughman for meeting with Via and him.

Katie Lalonde of Thompson Road invited all to the Kiwanis Club Non-Profit Group open house on Sunday
March 8th at German Villa. Kiwanis is looking for sponsors. Some things sponsorships have gone toward:
a book machine for the middle school, children to play local sports, bowling and pizza at Lake Erie Lanes,
plus more.

Arlene Olsen of Darrow Road thanked the Fire/EMS Department for all their hard work and thanked the
Trustees for being proactive on the Data Center Moratorium. Olsen suggested a moratorium on smart
meters and sighted studies showing they cause health hazards and fires.

Vermilion Township Personnel Policy Manual Chapter 7 (Leave) updates should be sent to the
Township’s property and liability insurance company OTARMA for review.

The part-time Vermilion Township Road Department job description/ad is agreeable to all and will be
posted on the Township website.

Rowe made a motion to hire Eileen Fenton Adams as the part-time secretary to the Vermilion Township
Zoning Commission and the Vermilion Township Board of Zoning Appeals on as as-needed basis for
$20.00 per hour. Sexton seconded the motion. 20260304-06

In regards to cleanup work that still needs to be done at Orchard Beach-Cuddeback Cemetery; Johnson
surveyed the trees and brush and determined all the brush work can be done in-house, but there is a
very big tree that a tree company will need to take care of. Sexton noted power lines were close the tree
and perhaps Johnson could see if Ohio Edison will do some of the work.

Geauga County has a good Master Zoning model called the Zoning Improvements & Policy Replacement
Recommendations (ZIPRR) that could be used as a road map to update the Townships policy. It has been
forward to the PLOT Committee for review, then will be passed on to the Zoning Commission, Board of
Zoning Appeals, then finally the Erie Regional Planning Commission. Currently the zoning book as 26
chapters written by different people at different times. It all needs to be cohesive.

Rowe stated a letter has been sent to Pena Properties LLC and a meeting is scheduled with Terry Pena,
Erie County Assistant Prosecutor Jason Hinners, Vermilion Township Building-Zoning Inspector Joe

                                                                                              P a g e 4|5
                                                                                            March 4th, 2026



Baxter, Johnson and Rowe to discuss property line discrepancies with the Vermilion Country Club and
Orchard Beach-Cuddeback Cemetery.

Rowe commented Kim Arnold from KLA Consulting, the Risk Management branch of the Township’s
property & liability insurance company OTARMA, recently performed an audit. One finding was access
to the Erie County Sheriff’s Department substation office in the Township Hall need to be modified.

Rowe noted that Zoning Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals member pay has not been updated in
20 plus years.

Rowe stated Gerken Paving will be doing the resurfacing of the State Route 2/60 ramps. They have
asked to use a portion of the Township west parking lot as a staging area.

Rowe said there is a moratorium on Brightspeed doing any digging, boring, or work in the road or right-
of-way, since they have damaged roads in multiple places and have not obtained any permits. Workers
are being sent by 3rd parties. Rowe and Johnson are having trouble getting someone higher up to
address the damage. Erie County Sheriff Paul Sigsworth said, if workers won’t leave, to call his
department.

Baughman did some research on the history of the township Trustees’ and the gavel they use. He wrote
an article about it and that article will be published in the Ohio Township Association (OTA) bi-monthly
magazine. Vermilion Daily has also published the article.

Baughman announced the next regular meeting would be Wednesday March 18th, 2026 at 6:30pm

Baughman announced the Planning Legislative Organizational Training (PLOT) Committee would be
meeting Thursday, March 5th, 2026 at 6:00pm at the Township Hall. The Vermilion Township Record
Commission will hold a brief meeting on Wednesday, March 18th, 2026 directly following the regular
Trustees’ meeting.

Baughman adjourned the meeting at 7:37pm.




                                                                                            P a g e 5|5
