Minutes of December 9, 2025

Record of Proceedings
The Washington Township Board of Trustees regularly scheduled meeting held at Washington Township
Administration Building, 6200 Eiterman Road, Dublin, Ohio, on December 9, 2025, at 6:00 p.m., with Mr.
Jan Rozanski, Chairman, calling the meeting to order, and it opened with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Roll call – Mr. Jan Rozanski, Chair – Present
            Mr. Charles Kranstuber, Vice Chair – Present
            Mr. Stu Harris, Trustee – Present
Swearing-In of Firefighter Ethan Loring and Firefighter Joseph Commisso
Mr. Rozanski administered the oath of office to the following:
     • Ethan Loring as Full-Time Probationary Firefighter, badge pinned by his fiancé Mackenzie
          Stevens.
     • Joseph Commisso as Full-Time Probationary Firefighter, badge pinned by his wife Paige.
Chief Donahue congratulated Firefighters Loring and Commisso on their promotion to full-time
probationary status. He opened the ceremony by emphasizing the purpose and significance of the oath
and the honor represented by the badge. Chief Donahue noted that both firefighters participated in a
competitive selection process among qualified internal candidates. Each has served WTFD as a part-time
firefighter since June 1, 2023. Both also earned their Paramedic certifications through OhioHealth; FF
Commisso in March and FF Loring in November.
Chief Donahue shared a passage from Tom Brennan, a decorated former Captain of New York City Fire
Department and former Chief of Waterbury Fire Department in Connecticut. Chief Brennan’s message to
new recruits underscored the importance of continuous training throughout one’s career, from
probationary firefighter to Fire Chief.
Addressing the families, Chief Donahue noted that the Trustees and Township Administrator are
committed to ensuring every possible resource is made available to support Washington Township
firefighters, both physically and mentally. He encouraged family members to reach out if they ever need
assistance.
Update on Fire at Ace Hardware, Dublin
Chief Donahue provided an update on the intentionally set fire at the Ace Hardware on West Bridge
Street. He explained that Washington Township Fire Department crews were responding to a fire alarm
at the nearby Marathon gas station when they noticed smoke coming from the Ace Hardware store. This
response escalated into a two-alarm fire.
He expressed appreciation to the mutual aid companies from Norwich Township, Upper Arlington,
Columbus, and Marysville, as well as Box 15 for providing on scene rehab and support services. Chief
Donahue especially recognized the Washington Township crews for identifying that the Marathon and
Ace Hardware incidents were connected, which led to the suspect’s apprehension within an hour and a
half of the initial alarm. He also commended the Dublin Police Department (DPD), noting that the
successful apprehension of the suspect was due in part to the strong working relationship between the
agencies.
Mr. Rozanski took the opportunity to thank Dublin Police Department Chief Páez and City Manager
Megan O’Callaghan, who were in attendance. Chief Páez expressed his appreciation for the opportunity
to extend gratitude on behalf of the DPD. He stated that the Ace Hardware incident demonstrated the
preparedness of both departments and highlighted how ongoing collaboration and joint training enable
them to serve the community at their best. Mrs. O’Callaghan commended the work of both Dublin
Police Department and Washington Township Fire Department and expressed her appreciation to Mr.
Richter and Chief Donahue for attending the Dublin City Council meeting the previous evening. She looks
forward to continuing the partnership between the City and Township in 2026.
Responding to concerns expressed by Mr. Kranstuber, Chief Donahue confirmed that Fire Marshal Sam
Parsons will contact the owners of Ace Hardware to determine whether there is anything further the
Township or the department can do to assist.
Franklin County Deputy Sheriff’s Report:
Deputy Burton Haren with Franklin County Sheriff’s Office (FCSO) submitted a written and verbal report
to the Trustees for November 18 through December 9, 2025, including an update on the following:
     • During this period, there were thirteen (13) Total Calls for Service / Self-Initiated Activity, one (1)
        Total Report Taken, and zero (0) Total Arrests / Citations:
             o The single report resulted from an identity theft situation involving a wireless phone
                  store near Dayton, Ohio. FCSO detectives are working with the jurisdiction where the
                  incident occurred and have identified a suspect.
     • Deputy Haren received a complaint through the FCSO website concerning parked vehicles
        blocking the alley near the pizza shop in Amlin. Deputy Haren spoke with an employee at the
        restaurant and will follow up with management.
     • As a follow-up to the distracted driving target enforcement area discussed at the November 18
        meeting, the FCSO worked with Ohio State Highway Patrol to conduct approximately fifty (50)
        traffic stops around I-270, resulting in approximately twenty-two (22) citations.         Append #001
Dublin Education Foundation – Updates for the Board of Trustees
Treasurer Josh Wilke of the Dublin Education Foundation (DEF) provided an update to the Board of
Trustees on the Foundation’s recent work and its partnership with Washington Township. He explained
that DEF focuses on securing grants to support teachers and school initiatives districtwide. Washington
Township’s grant funding, originally received through a class-action lawsuit and earmarked for drug
abuse awareness and prevention, has played a significant role in advancing mental health and addiction-
prevention efforts in the Dublin City School District.
Mr. Wilke noted that DEF representatives attended the Township’s June meeting, and since then the
Foundation has completed another grant cycle. Approximately $25,000 in new grants were awarded a
few weeks ago, with nearly every school building in the district benefiting.
He highlighted two initiatives in particular:
     1. Deer Run Elementary – Building-Wide Resiliency Initiative: A comprehensive program focused
        on building resiliency skills, including family activities to reinforce these lessons at home.
     2. Cross-Curricular Project – Middle School Expansion: Originally launched at Eversole Middle
        School and now replicated at Karrer Middle School, with plans for expansion to the remaining
        middle schools. Last year, an 8th grade project from Eversole focused on the impacts of drunk
        driving on the community. Across each middle school, 50-60 student projects are expected, with
        10-20 centered on mental health topics such as creating positive after-school spaces.
Mr. Wilke shared that DEF looks forward to returning in the spring after the next grant cycle to provide
another update.
In response to a question from Mr. Kranstuber, Mr. Wilke announced DEF’s next major fundraiser,
Elevate Education, is scheduled for February 27 at The Exchange in Bridge Park. He explained that DEF
has existed for more than 20 years and has expanded significantly in recent years. Mr. Harris added that
the gala typically showcases 10-15 grant-funded projects and includes teachers who present the work
made possible through DEF support, such as the grant awarded by Washington Township.
Mr. Rozanski expressed appreciation for the update and reiterated that the Township funding was
designated specifically for drug abuse awareness and prevention initiatives.
Mr. Wilke noted that the focus on addiction has broadened to consider related issues such as social
media and technology addiction, in addition to drugs and alcohol. He shared a video illustrating the
evolution of The Partnership for a Drug-Free America into The Partnership to End Addiction.
Mr. Bostic commented on the historical value of the DARE program, and Chief Páez clarified that while
DARE is no longer in use, Dublin Police Department School Resource Officers now provide drug abuse
prevention programming within the schools. Mr. Harris added that several student groups within the
schools are also engaged in projects related to addiction awareness and prevention.            Append #002
Lithium-Ion Battery Presentation – Washington Township Firefighter Dalan Zartman and Fire Chief
John Donahue
Chief Donahue opened the presentation by revisiting the Trustees’ October 28 discussion regarding data
centers and Dublin’s development focus in the West Innovation District. He provided an overview of
data center operations, noting that these facilities support not only private businesses but also
government and military data storage, ranging from individuals and small clients to major companies
such as Google and Amazon. He described the varying scales of data centers, noting that even the
Township houses a small two-rack server system in the Administration Offices, with primary data stored
at the larger DartPoints facility.
Chief Donahue explained the four tiers of data centers, emphasizing how tier level correlates with
reliability, an essential consideration for business continuity. He outlined the different energy systems
commonly used to maintain consistent voltage and amperage for sensitive computer equipment,
including grid power, diesel generators, lithium-ion battery systems, natural gas generators, and
renewable sources such as solar and wind. He noted that natural gas systems represent a newer
approach, generating power by breaking down gas molecules rather than using traditional combustion.
Chief Donahue also highlighted that the proposed Norwich Township/Hilliard facility plans to use a
natural gas generator and emphasized the value of having a recognized subject-matter expert,
Firefighter Dalan Zartman, as well others within the WTFD.
Firefighter Zartman thanked the Trustees and provided a “Battery 101” overview focused on lithium-ion
technology, its growing prevalence, and the associated challenges for the fire service and the
community. He explained that lithium-ion batteries are now a prevalent fuel source powering consumer
products, e-bikes, residential and commercial storage systems, uninterruptable power supplies (UPS),
and electric vehicles.
He described three common battery formats: cylindrical, prismatic, and pouch, and their four basic
components. FF Zartman explained that failures typically stem from thermal, electrical, environmental,
or physical abuse, each of which can trigger an arcing event that leads to pressurized gas release and
toxic emissions. He emphasized that these challenges are solvable and manageable through proactive
planning, extensive training, and the adoption of modern codes and standards. He discussed the
importance of performance-based facility design, engineering review, and ensuring the fire department
has proper technical and tactical resources. He also noted the need for the community to consider long-
term preparedness, including facility bonding and access to subject-matter experts, so they are not left
with unresolved issues following an incident.
FF Zartman described strategies for managing battery fuel loads, classifications, and thermal runaway
risks. Preventing propagation from one battery to another is critical, and some facilities employ
specialized containment or isolation systems. He played a video showing large-scale training involving
direct water application to a lithium-ion fire and explained how improper top-vent cooling can create
further arcing hazards if systems are not engineered correctly. He also noted that UPS units are often
housed outdoors in shipping-container-type enclosures.
FF Zartman then outlined several “target hazards” for fire service planning, including code enforcement,
multi-agency coordination, operational readiness, and post-incident management. While there is no
“magic elixir” to extinguish lithium-ion fires, he stressed that effective containment systems exist. Chief
Donahue reaffirmed the Washington Township Fire Department’s mission to protect life and property
through high standards in EMS, fire suppression, prevention, education, and safety. He explained the
Fire Department’s role in risk management through the “Five Es:”
     1. Education: community programs such as fire extinguisher training, CPR, babysitter courses
     2. Engineering: measures that prevent fires or limit spread
     3. Enforcement: inspections based on the International Fire Code
     4. Economic Incentives: encouraging safety improvements such as sprinkler systems
     5. Emergency Response: responding to incidents when they occur
He reviewed the April fire on Shady Nelms Drive involving a charging electric scooter which sent three
individuals to the hospital. WTFD participates in the Northern Area Strike Team (NAS-T), a coalition of
eleven departments collaborating on investigative and response strategies for emerging hazards,
including lithium-ion incidents. He also noted access to statewide emergency mobilization resources
through the Ohio Fire Chiefs Association.
Chief Donahue reviewed code and standards updates, including the International Fire Code and Ohio
Building Code. WTFD plans to evaluate NFPA 855 and NFPA 800, and may recommend local code
modifications in collaboration with the Trustees.
Mr. Kranstuber praised the presentation and particularly FF Zartman’s expertise. He expressed concern
that fire-safety issues and broader questions about whether data centers are compatible with
residential development had conflated. He cited concerns such as electricity and water usage by data
centers along with other environmental concerns and referenced an article characterizing data centers
as “the asbestos of our time.” He confirmed that the fire department’s role is to apply and enforce the
adopted codes and maintained that the Trustees will continue the discussion on whether and where
data centers should be permitted.
Mr. Harris inquired whether Chief Donahue envisioned continued collaboration with Norwich and
Jerome Townships in 2026, noting media reports of community pushback against data center
development. He asked whether WTFD might recommend NFPA 855 and 800 to mutual aid partners.
Chief Donahue clarified that WTFD cannot impose standards on other agencies and that moratorium
decisions rest with governmental authorities. He noted that Jerome Township has already enacted a
moratorium to better understand data center impacts.
The Trustees discussed the possibility of Washington Township adopting a moratorium. Mr. Kranstuber
expressed support for proposing one and encouraging the City of Dublin to do the same. Mr. Harris
suggested gathering additional information, consulting legal counsel, and revisiting the matter in
January 2026. He also noted that other communities, such as Ashville in Pickaway County, are exploring
similar steps. He expressed interest in hearing from other communities navigating similar issues.
Mr. Rozanski raised concerns about lagging national standards, particularly with rapid changes in
lithium-ion technology, and asked about battery lifespan. FF Zartman explained that while NFPA codes
do trail industry development, new formats offer greater flexibility and safety. Data centers typically
maintain high compliance standards and rotate batteries approximately every seven years. Smaller
batteries, such as those in consumer products, often lack robust battery management systems,
increasing failure risk.
Mr. Richter clarified that most land in the unincorporated territory of Washington Township is zoned
residential and would not permit data center development under the current Zoning Resolution. He
recommended referring any proposed moratorium to legal counsel for review.                    Append #003
After discussion, Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce the following motion:
Motion to Institute a 90-day Moratorium on Construction or Approval of Data Centers in Washington
Township:
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and institute a 90-day moratorium on the construction or approval
of data centers within Washington Township. During this 90-day period, the matter will be referred to
legal counsel to determine the legality of further control of data centers. The Trustees further urge the
City of Dublin to refrain from approving or constructing any additional data centers within the City of
Dublin. Seconded by Mr. Harris. Motion adopted December 9, 2025.                           #2025.12.09.001
Opportunity for Residents to Speak:
Resident Todd Hemmert shared perspective from his work with Honda’s electric vehicle testing
program, describing the extensive procedures used to manage EV accident testing, including the use of a
large water tank and industrial equipment to handle vehicles experiencing thermal runaway. He asked
FF Zartman how the fire department determines when it is safe for personnel to enter a structure during
a lithium-ion incident.
FF Zartman explained that withholding entry is typically driven by concerns about the structural integrity
of the building rather than the battery event itself. He noted that data center batteries are significantly
more manageable than electric vehicle batteries, with far smaller fuel loads that burn out more quickly
and with systems in place, such as dry chemical agents over each rack, to prevent propagation to
adjacent units. He added that many surrounding agencies are still becoming familiar with the electrical
complexities associated with these systems, underscoring the importance of coordinating with on-site
subject-matter experts. FF Zartman contrasted modern, sectionalized data center designs with a large-
scale incident in California involving 20-foot battery racks with a shared sprinkler system, which led to
prolonged burning and eventual building collapse.
Dublin City Manager Megan O’Callaghan commented that the City also has very limited areas where
data centers are permissible under current zoning. She noted that discussions about data centers will
continue into early 2026 as the City evaluates further development and regulatory concerns.
Resident Amy Swank expressed appreciation for Chief Donahue’s and FF Zartman’s presentation, noting
that the fire department’s preparedness helped ease some of her concerns. She also thanked the
Trustees for their actions regarding the moratorium. Ms. Swank encouraged the Township and City to
remain aware that backup generation systems will increasingly be used outside of data centers, as large
energy users across industries look to supplement the strained power grid. She referenced significant
federal investment, approximately $500 billion through the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
(FERC), to support development of these generation systems and noted that associated waste from
certain technologies, similar to nuclear-based systems, must remain with the community. Given Dublin’s
anticipated industrial growth, she stressed the importance of planning for the energy and infrastructure
implications of such development over the next decade.
Mr. Bostic provided an update that he anticipates the Memorial Preserve at St. John Lutheran Church to
return as a topic for the Dublin Planning and Zoning Commission in early 2026.
In response to questions from Mr. Kranstuber, Mr. Richter and Mrs. O’Callaghan discussed potential
land acquisition along Monterey Drive. Mrs. O’Callaghan noted there has been community support for a
proposed development that would enable a land-swap concept that could facilitate cemetery expansion,
though previous development proposals for the site have not moved forward.
Resolution to Contingently Hire George P. Sorge II as Full-Time Probationary Training/Safety Manager:
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
RESOLUTION TO CONTINGENTLY HIRE GEORGE P. SORGE II AS FULL-TIME PROBATIONARY TRAINING /
SAFETY MANAGER
WHEREAS, Washington Township provides fire suppression and prevention and emergency medical
services to its constituents, and;
WHEREAS, a need to fill a vacancy, occurring on or about February 2026, in the position of Training /
Safety Manager, and;
WHEREAS, during the September 9, 2025 Washington Township Board of Trustees Meeting, the Board
approved hiring an additional Training / Safety Manager temporarily to meet the community and
operational needs of the department, and;
WHEREAS, to adequately provide services, it is necessary to fill the vacancy in the position, and;
WHEREAS the human resource manager, fire chief, assistant fire chief and township administrator
recommends the contingent appointment of George P. Sorge II as long as the Township receives
satisfactory background check results as outlined in his contingent offer of employment.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE BOARD OF TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES OF WASHINGTON
TOWNSHIP, FRANKLIN, DELAWARE, AND UNION COUNTIES, OHIO THAT:
         Section 1: The Board approves the contingent hiring of:
                  Name: George P. Sorge II
                  Position: Probationary Training / Safety Manager
                  Classification: Uniformed Full-Time Exempt
                  Base Salary: $119,888.94
                  Effective date: To Be Determined
         Section 2: It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                    relating to the adoption of this resolution were adopted in an open meeting of this
                    Board, and that all deliberations of the Board and any of its committees that resulted
                    in such formal action, were in meetings open to the public, in compliance with all legal
                    requirements including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
         Section 3: This Resolution shall take effect and be in force at the earliest time permitted by law.
Mr. Harris seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington Township
Trustees whom were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted December 9, 2025.                 #2025.12.09.002
                                                                                                Append #004
Resolution to Accept a $544,300.00 Grant from the Central Ohio Transit Authority (COTA) Transit
Supportive Infrastructure Program, in Support of the Construction of the Shier Rings Road Shared Use
Path Project Between Washington Township and the City of Dublin, and Authorizing and Directing the
Township Administrator to Execute All Documents Necessary to Accept the Grant:
Discussion:
Mr. Richter provided background on the project, noting that it was included in the funding made
available through the Central Ohio Transit Authority (COTA) sales tax increase. He explained that the
committee began its work several months before the initiative was placed on the ballot, and that he had
already initiated discussions with the City of Dublin regarding the shared use path. Because COTA
expressed interest in distributing funds broadly across multiple communities, Mr. Richter took the lead
in submitting the grant request.
Mr. Rozanski expressed his appreciation to Mr. Richter for his efforts throughout the grant writing
process. Mr. Richter, in turn, commended the Mid-Ohio Regional Planning Commission for its foresight
in identifying potential projects ahead of the funding becoming available.
Mrs. O’Callaghan noted that although the path is not a long connection, it is another strong example of
the collaboration between the City and the Township and will benefit many residents.
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING A $544,300.00 GRANT FROM THE CENTRAL OHIO TRANSIT AUTHORITY
(COTA) TRANSIT SUPPORTIVE INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM, IN SUPPORT OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF
THE SHIER RINGS ROAD SHARED USE PATH PROJECT BETWEEN WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP AND THE
CITY OF DUBLIN, AND AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE TOWNSHIP ADMINISTRATOR TO EXECUTE
ALL DOCUMENTS NECESSARY TO ACCEPT THE GRANT
WHEREAS, the COTA Transit Supportive Infrastructure Program offers financial assistance to
communities seeking to create safer and more connected communities, and;
WHEREAS, the Township Administrator represents Washington Township on the Transit Supportive
Infrastructure (TSI) Committee along with representatives of the City of Dublin Mobility Department,
and;
WHEREAS, the Township and the City of Dublin identified the Shier Rings Road Shared Use Path
connector as a priority to provide pedestrian/bike connectivity to several miles of existing paths to the
benefit of a large number of residents of both communities and;
WHEREAS, the Township has entered into a construction and cost-sharing agreement with the City of
Dublin for the design, right-of-way acquisition and construction of the Shier Rings Shared Used Path,
and;
WHEREAS, all reimbursable grant proceeds from the Transit Supportive Infrastructure Grant will be
applied equally to the allocated costs established between the Township and the City of Dublin.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of Washington Township, Franklin,
Delaware, and Union Counties, State of Ohio:
         Section 1: The Board of Trustees hereby accepts the COTA Transit Supportive Infrastructure
                   Grant in the amount of $544,300.00.
         Section 2: The Board of Trustees hereby authorizes and directs the Township Administrator, or
                   his designee, to execute any and all documents necessary to accept the COTA Transit
                   Supportive Infrastructure Grant in the amount of $544,300.00.
         Section 3: It is hereby found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                   relating to the passage of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
                   Board and that all deliberations of the Board and any of the decision making bodies of
                   the Board of Trustees which resulted in such formal actions were in meetings open to
                   the public in compliance with all legal requirements of the State of Ohio.
Mr. Harris seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington Township
Trustees whom were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted December 9, 2025.               #2025.12.09.003
                                                                                              Append #005
Resolution to Authorize the Township Administrator to Execute a 2026 Information Technology
Agreement with CompuCorp/MaxTech for the Period 1/1/2026 through 12/31/2026, Cost Not to
Exceed $226,000:
Discussion:
Mr. Richter explained that this is the annual contract renewal for Compucorp/MAXtech as the
Township’s third party Information Technology services provider. He reported that MAXtech continues
to be an exceptional partner. The contract is hours based and Mr. Richter works to manage the hours
allotted under the agreement to prevent exceeding the contracted amount.
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE TOWNSHIP ADMINISTRATOR TO EXECUTE A 2026
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROJECT MANAGEMENT, ENGINEERING, SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION,
AND DESKTOP SUPPORT SERVICES AGREEMENT WITH COMPUCORP/MAXTECH FOR AN AMOUNT NOT
TO EXCEED $226,000.00 FOR THE PERIOD 1/1/2026 THROUGH 12/31/2026.
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees understands the importance of utilizing technology for the efficient
delivery of public services, while also maintaining the confidentiality and security of privileged
information; and
WHEREAS, Washington Township implemented a multi-year phased plan to upgrade servers, hardware,
software, licensing and firewalls to modernize and update various Township IT related systems; and
WHEREAS, CompuCorp has been providing the Township these services, and the Township has been
pleased by the progress made and services provided; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of Washington Township now wants to enter into a new I.T. Services
Agreement with CompuCorp for the period of January 1, 2026 through December 31, 2026.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of Washington Township, Franklin,
Delaware, and Union Counties, State of Ohio:
          Section 1: The Board of Trustees hereby authorizes and directs the Township Administrator to
                    execute an Agreement with CompuCorp for information technology managed services
                    (as set forth in the scope of services).
          Section 2: It is hereby found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                    relating to the passage of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
                    Board and that all deliberations of the Board and any of the decision-making bodies of
                    the Board of Trustees which resulted in such formal actions were in meetings open to
                    the public in compliance with all legal requirements of the State of Ohio.
Mr. Rozanski seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington
Township Trustees whom were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted December 9, 2025.
                                                                                            #2025.12.09.004
                                                                                                Append #006
Resolution to Authorize and Direct the Township Administrator to Enter into a Professional Services
Agreement with Syntero, Incorporated for 50% Cost of Public Safety Services Liaison, Cost Not to
Exceed $54,119.00:
Discussion:
Chief Donahue reiterated the importance of the partnership with the City of Dublin. He explained that
this is the second year the Township has collaborated with Dublin to utilize Syntero for a Public Safety
Services Liaison. In 2025, services were provided to one hundred twenty-nine (129) residents.
Chief Donahue noted that the top three areas of need were suicide-related concerns, mental health
issues, and older adults requiring resources. He confirmed that the Township uses Opioid Settlement
Funds to cover its portion of the cost.
Motion:
Mr. Rozanski introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE TOWNSHIP ADMINISTRATOR TO ENTER INTO A PROFESSIONAL
SERVICES AGREEMENT WITH SYNTERO, INCORPORATED FOR 50% COST OF PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES
LIAISON, COST NOT TO EXCEED $54,119.00
WHEREAS, Syntero, Incorporated is an advocate and supports the health and well-being of individuals,
families and communities by providing professional, compassionate behavioral health and social
services that adapt to the changing needs of the community; and
WHEREAS, Washington Township also supports the services offered by Syntero, Incorporated and all
that they do for the community; and
WHEREAS, the Public Safety Service Liaison would cohesively support the efforts of Dublin Police and
Washington Township Fire Department to connect social and behavioral health resources to residents
and reduce future emergency response interventions; and
WHEREAS, Syntero, Incorporated is uniquely qualified to provide referral service for mental health
counseling, homelessness, dependency and addiction, and family services.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of Washington Township, Franklin,
Delaware, and Union Counties, State of Ohio:
         Section 1: The Board of Trustees of Washington Township hereby authorizes and directs the
                    Township Administrator to enter into a professional services agreement with Syntero,
                    Incorporated for 50% cost of Public Safety Services Liaison for a period of one year,
                    January 1, 2026 through December 31, 2026, cost not to exceed $54,119.
         Section 2: It is hereby found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                    relating to the passage of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
                    Board and that all deliberations of the Board and any of the decision-making bodies of
                    the Board of Trustees which resulted in such formal actions were in meetings open to
                    the public in compliance with all legal requirements of the State of Ohio.
Mr. Harris seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington Township
Trustees whom were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted December 9, 2025.                #2025.12.09.005
                                                                                               Append #007
Resolution to Adopt the 2026 Temporary Budget:
Discussion:
Mr. Richter reviewed the proposed 2026 Temporary Budget, noting an approximate 29% increase in
General Fund Revenues due primarily to the COTA Transit Supportive Infrastructure (TSI) grant, which
must be received and expended through the General Fund. The projections also include a planned
transfer to the Capital Projects Fund, which was established in February 2025. After transferring $1
million in 2025, the Township anticipates transferring an additional $1.3 million in 2026.
Mr. Richter provided the Capital Projects Improvement Plan with the board packet, a ten-year planning
document that currently includes placeholder amounts as the Township works to identify large-scale
capital needs. He emphasized that the plan will remain fluid and will be updated over time. He also
reported that EMS billing revenue is performing strongly, exceeding $1.4 million through November, and
noted that more data from the new billing company is needed before making major adjustments to that
fund.
Mr. Rozanski commented on the volume of information and suggested further discussion at the
upcoming Strategic Planning Session. Mr. Richter agreed and expressed a desire to schedule the session
in the first quarter, after year-end financials are finalized. Mr. Richter confirmed he would bring forward
proposed dates at the next meeting, as requested by Mr. Rozanski.
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE 2026 TEMPORARY BUDGET APPROPRIATIONS
WHEREAS, the levels of resources have been identified for the 2026 fiscal year, and
WHEREAS, appropriations planning and consultation within the Township has been accomplished; and
WHEREAS, the Township’s Fiscal Officer, Administrator and the Fire Chief are now prepared to present
the 2026 Temporary Budget; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the 2026 Temporary Appropriations and the Fiscal Operating,
Capital and Debt Service Budgets of Washington Township (Franklin, Delaware and Union Counties,
Ohio), for fiscal year 2026 as supported in the accompanying documentation and approved by the
Trustees, Fiscal Officer, Administrator and the Fire Chief, to make expenditures within the projected
income levels, provided that bills and payrolls shall be submitted to and approved for payment upon
resolution of the Board: and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Fiscal Officer be instructed to incorporate the Temporary Budget
Resolutions, and all supporting documents into the minutes and appendices of this meeting, and to file
these materials with the official records of this Township.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all formal actions of this Board concerning and relating to the passage of
this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the Board and that all deliberations of the Board
and any of the decision-making bodies of the Board which resulted in such formal actions were in
meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal requirements including Section 121.22 of the
Ohio Revised Code.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this Resolution shall take effect and be in force as the earliest time
permitted in law.
Mr. Harris seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington Township
Trustees whom were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted December 9, 2025.                  #2025.12.09.006
                                                                                                Append #008
Motion to Authorize the Payment of Property and Casualty Insurance Renewals for 2026. Mr. Ryan
Keenan, The Keenan Agency, will be in attendance to discuss and answer questions:
Discussion:
Mr. Keenan confirmed this is a renewal with the same carrier and coverages as the previous year.
Motion:
Mr. Harris moved to introduce and authorize the payment of property and casualty insurance renewals
for 2026, seconded by Mr. Kranstuber. Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township
Trustees whom were present voting Aye.                                                       #2025.12.09.007
                                                                                                Append #009
Motion to Authorize the Township Administrator to Enter into an Agreement with SES Performance,
LLC for Physical Fitness Services for Fire Department Personnel at a Cost Not to Exceed $50,960:
Discussion:
Chief Donahue presented the proposed agreement with SES Performance, a local Dublin company. He
explained that the department began seeking alternatives due to rising costs from the current provider
and in an attempt to involve more personnel in the program. Three vendors responded to the RFP, and
two were selected for final consideration. SES Performance was recommended based on cost and
service enhancements, including a fifty percent (50%) increase in weekly hours, onsite sessions at
administration, and additional opportunities for firefighters who miss their regular sessions. SES will also
provide individualized analytics to improve strength and flexibility, as well as fifty (50) hours of
nutritional education. The program is intended to complement the mental and physical wellness
initiatives already in place for Township employees.
Mr. Kranstuber asked whether firefighters support the transition; Chief Donahue confirmed that several
participated in the selection committee and that efforts are underway to involve more personnel. In
response to questions regarding other clients, Chief noted that Dublin Coffman High School uses SES for
athletic performance training.
Mr. Harris raised concerns regarding the absence of explicit liability insurance in the contract. Chief
Donahue explained that certain indemnification language cannot be included due to state law. Mr.
Richter added that he and Chief Donahue have consulted with attorney Brian Zets about developing a
standard contract template, however, significant variations among vendors have made that difficult and
can deter potential partners. Mr. Kranstuber asked whether general liability insurance could be
required; Chief confirmed that a rider can be obtained. Mr. Harris also requested a legal memorandum
explaining the rationale for the Township’s inconsistent use of certain contract provisions.
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and authorize the Township Administrator to enter into an
agreement with SES Performance LLC for physical fitness services for fire department personnel at a cost
not to exceed $50,960, seconded by Mr. Harris. Motion passed with all members of the Washington
Township Trustees whom were present voting Aye.                                          #2025.12.09.008
                                                                                             Append #010
Motion to Authorize the Township Administrator to Enter into an Agreement with Fusion Marketing
Group LLC for Social Media Marketing and Communications Content, Cost Not to Exceed $25,000:
Discussion:
Mr. Richter presented the annual agreement with Fusion Marketing Group, led by Lindsay Hummer. He
noted that following the departure of the communications staff member, the Township engaged Mrs.
Hummer, who has provided exceptional support in social media and communications content creation.
Other responsibilities formerly handled by the communications position have been distributed among
existing staff, and the proposed agreement continues the successful collaboration with Fusion
Marketing Group.
Motion:
Mr. Rozanski moved to introduce and authorize the Township Administrator to enter into an agreement
with Fusion Marketing Group LLC for social media marketing and communication content, cost not to
exceed $25,000, seconded by Mr. Harris. Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township
Trustees whom were present voting Aye.                                                   #2025.12.09.009
                                                                                             Append #011
Motion to Approve Meeting Minutes:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and approve the minutes from the November 18, 2025, Board of
Trustees Meeting, seconded by Mr. Rozanski. Motion passed with all members of the Washington
Township Trustees whom were present voting Aye.                                          #2025.12.09.010
                                                                                             Append #012
Year End Motions / Resolutions 2025:                                                         Append #013
Trustee Compensation:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and adopt the resolution accepting maximum compensation
allowable by law for the Township Trustees established by the Ohio General Assembly and published in
the Ohio Revised Code for individual Township Trustees for and during the year 2026, seconded by Mr.
Harris. Motion adopted December 9, 2025.                                                 #2025.12.09.011
Fiscal Officer Compensation:
Mr. Rozanski moved to introduce and adopt the resolution accepting maximum compensation allowable
by law for the Township Fiscal Officer established by the Ohio General Assembly and published in the
Ohio Revised Code for individual Township Fiscal Officer for and during the year 2026, seconded by Mr.
Harris. Motion adopted December 9, 2025.                                                 #2025.12.09.012
Elected Official Benefits:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and adopt the resolution declaring eligibility of Elected Officials to
receive health insurance benefits and to provide any/all benefits offered by Washington Township to
the newly elected officials and Township Trustees and the Fiscal Officer for and during the year 2026 per
the Ohio Revised Code, seconded by Mr. Harris. Motion adopted December 9, 2025. #2025.12.09.013
Appointing/Affirming Members of the Zoning Commission:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and adopt the resolution appointing and affirming members to the
Washington Township Board of Zoning Appeals & Zoning Commission as follows, seconded by Mr. Harris:
     Board of Zoning Appeals – Five-Year Term
              1. Richard Kear, effective January 1, 2026, expiring December 31, 2030.
              2. Joseph Warino, effective January 1, 2025, expiring December 31, 2029.
              3. Julie Skolnicki, effective January 1, 2024, expiring December 31, 2028.
              4. Jason Huffman, effective January 1, 2023, expiring December 31, 2027.
              5. Michael Deaton, effective January 1, 2022, expiring December 31, 2026.
              6. Chris Wiser, alternate member effective January 1, 2024, expiring December 31, 2026.
              7. David Downs, alternate member effective January 1, 2024, expiring December 31, 2028.
              8. Ms. Rebecca Princehorn is re-appointed secretary, treasurer, ex officio, of the Zoning
                  Appeals effective January 1, 2026, expiring December 31, 2026.
     Zoning Commission – Five-Year Term
              1. Stephen Sharpnack, effective January 1, 2026, expiring December 31, 2030.
              2. Patrick Wilkerson, effective January 1, 2025, expiring December 31, 2029.
              3. R. Bruce McLoughlin, effective January 1, 2024, expiring December 31, 2028.
              4. Marsha Spears, effective January 1, 2023, expiring December 31, 2027.
              5. Brenda Santanello, effective January 1, 2022, expiring December 31, 2026.
              6. Vacant, alternate member effective January 1, 2024, expiring December 31, 2028.
            Motion adopted December 9, 2025.                                             #2025.12.09.014
Committee Compensation:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and adopt a resolution fixing compensation to members of the
Washington Township Zoning Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals, and the Fire Appeals Board to allow
compensation for these Boards as follows: Member, $35 per meeting attended; Chair, $10 per meeting
attended above compensation as committee member - $45; if there is an appointed Secretary - $35 per
meeting above compensation as committee member, seconded by Mr. Harris. Motion passed December
9, 2025.                                                                                 #2025.12.09.015
Establishing Zoning Fees:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and approve the schedule of zoning fees, seconded by Mr. Harris:
    Copy of Land Use Plan                     30.00
    Copy of Zoning Resolution                 30.00
    Copy of Zoning Map                        20.00
    Certificate of Zoning Compliance          30.00
    Application for variance, appeal
       or other action of the Board
       of Zoning Appeals                      100.00
    Application for rezoning or other
       action of the Zoning Commission 500.00
    Additional fee for a special meeting
       of either the Board of Zoning
       Appeals or Zoning Commission           100.00
         Home occupation permits              30.00
Motion passed December 9, 2025.                                                          #2025.12.09.016
Authorization to Execute Certain Agreements:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and adopt a resolution authorizing the Chair and Fiscal Officer,
Administrator and/or the Fire Chief to enter into and execute certain agreements that have been
formally introduced and approved by the Board of Trustees and renewal agreements for maintenance
and services, change orders to agreements previously approved by the Board for construction and to
stay within the department’s budget and provided a report of all such agreements shall be presented to
the Board for ratification at the next regularly scheduled meeting, seconded by Mr. Rozanski. Motion
adopted December 9, 2025.                                                               #2025.12.09.017
Hiring of Attorneys to Represent the Township:
Mr. Harris moved to introduce and adopt the resolution employing Township’s attorneys for particular
matters for the year 2026 as follows, seconded by Mr. Rozanski:
• Brosius, Johnson & Griggs, LLC, Attorneys at Law
• Bricker Graydon, LLP
• Fishel Downey Albrecht & Riepenhoff LLP
• Isaac Wiles Burkholder & Miller LLC
• Sybert, Rhoad, Lackey & Swisher, LLC, Attorneys
• Scott Warrick, LLC., Attorney at Law
Motion adopted December 9, 2025.                                                        #2025.12.09.018
Renewal of Township Memberships:
Mr. Rozanski moved to introduce and adopt the resolution renewing membership in the Coalition of Large
Ohio Urban Townships, Ohio Township Association, Franklin County Township Association, Delaware
County Township Association, and Union County Township Association, seconded by Mr. Harris. Motion
adopted December 9, 2025.                                                               #2025.12.09.019
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and adopt the resolution renewing membership in the Japan-
America Society of Central Ohio (JASCO), with Trustee Stu Harris serving as Township liaison, seconded
by Mr. Harris. Motion adopted December 9, 2025.                                         #2025.12.09.020
Election of the Chair and Vice Chair:
Mr. Rozanski moved to introduce and nominate Mr. Chuck Kranstuber as chair of the Washington
Township Board of Trustees for 2026, seconded by Mr. Harris. Mr. Kranstuber abstained. Motion passed
December 9, 2025.                                                                       #2025.12.09.021
Mr. Rozanski moved to introduce and nominate Mr. Stu Harris, as the Vice Chair of the Washington
Township Board of Trustees for 2026, seconded by Mr. Kranstuber. Mr. Harris abstained. Motion passed
December 9, 2025.                                                                       #2025.12.09.022
Establish Meeting Dates and Times for 2026:
Mr. Harris moved to introduce and establish the second Tuesday at 6:00 P.M. and the fourth Tuesday at
6:00 P.M. of each month for convening regular meetings of the Washington Township Board of Trustees,
with meetings to be held at the Township Administration Building, 6200 Eiterman Road. Only the
meeting on the second Tuesday will be held in the months of June, July, August, November and
December, seconded by Mr. Kranstuber. Motion passed December 9, 2025.                   #2025.12.09.023
Authorize the Use of GovDeals for the Purpose of Auctioning Township Assets no longer needed:
Mr. Rozanski moved to introduce and authorize the use of GovDeals for the purpose of auctioning
Township Assets no longer needed, seconded by Mr. Harris. Motion passed December 9, 2025.
                                                                                        #2025.12.09.024
Motion to Approve Consent Agenda:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and approve the Consent Agenda as presented and as follows,
seconded by Mr. Harris:
        o Bills: November 14, 2025                       $ 133,870.73
        o Bills: November 25, 2025                       $ 280,906.52
       o Payroll: November 21, 2025                    $ 636,220.13
       o Payroll: December 5, 2025                     $ 534,828.21
       o Payroll: Monthly December 5, 2025             $ 9,584.00
       o November 2025 Medical Payments                $ 247,564.53
       o November 2025 Electronic Payments             $1,456,433.40
       o Appropriation Transfers November 2025 $ 24,070.00
       o Fund Transfers October 2025                   $1,000,000.00
       o October 2025 Monthly Report
Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township Trustees whom were present voting Aye.
                                                                                         #2025.12.09.025
                                                                                            Append #014
Round Table Discussions:
Township Administrator Eric Richter:
   • The Madison County Board of Commissioners’ denial of an annexation request was overturned
       by a judge, who ruled that the commissioners must approve the annexation. City Manager
       O’Callaghan thanked Mr. Richter and Chief Donahue for their support, noting she had not
       anticipated the ruling would hinge on service-related considerations. Madison County has
       approximately one month to appeal the decision.
   • Mr. Richter shared an update on Dublin’s West Innovation District. Mrs. O’Callaghan reported
       the City has been working with consultants on proposed Zoning Code amendments based on
       resident feedback. The consultant’s work is nearing completion, and a follow-up meeting with
       Ballantrae residents is being scheduled. The City is focusing on establishing a new zoning district
       between the railroad tracks and Cosgray Road. Rezoning efforts on the opposite side of the
       tracks are temporarily on hold.
   • Responding to Mr. Richter’s summary of the Dublin City Council meeting the previous evening,
       Mrs. O’Callaghan noted significant action taken by Council to authorize the purchase of three
       hundred fifty (350) acres, including the Gingerich Farms and Miller Farms properties, which are
       contiguous to the Carter Farms property Dublin previously acquired. These parcels are adjacent
       to land recently sold by Schottenstein along State Route 161.
   • Mr. Rozanski referenced the article provided by Mr. Richter highlighting an unusually high land
       sale price along the 161 corridor in Darby Township and asked Mrs. O’Callaghan about rumored
       potential use of the property. She indicated it may be considered for a data center, noting the
       township recently approved increased height allowance for that area. Resident Amy Swank
       observed that the acreage may be insufficient for a data center footprint and suggested the site
       may ultimately become mixed-use residential, consistent with Madison County’s development
       plan.
   • The Franklin County Township Association annual meeting is scheduled for January 15 at
       Hollywood Casino. Trustees were asked to inform Mr. Richter if they plan to attend so he may
       complete registration.
   • Mr. Richter recognized Human Resource Manager Catherine Grossman for her outstanding
       planning of the Township’s holiday party, which received excellent feedback from staff and
       firefighters. Appreciation was expressed to the Trustees for their support, and OCLC was noted
       as a wonderful venue.
   • Mr. Richter commended the fire department’s strong response to the Ace Hardware fire. He
       noted newly promoted Captain Jesse Hill served as Acting Battalion Chief and was praised for his
          calm, effective incident command. Mr. Richter also thanked Chief Donahue for managing media
          inquiries on scene.
     • Mr. Richter notified the Trustees that he will be out of state from the following day through
          Monday. He is having a medical procedure mid-month but will be recovering at home
          afterwards.
Chief John Donahue:
     • Chief Donahue presented the November monthly report. The department responded to 567
          calls in November, continuing to trend below the previous year’s totals.
     • Chief Donahue noted a grand jury session is scheduled for Friday for the Ace Hardware fire, with
          Prevention Bureau staff set to testify, including Deputy Fire Marshal Chad Hamilton and Fire
          Inspector Scott Cantrell. Chief Donahue reaffirmed pride in department personnel and the
          strength of partnership with DPD. He noted that Captain Hill teaches the department’s Blue
          Card course and will follow up with involved crews to assess any support needs. Mr. Rozanski
          asked that thanks for his outstanding work be passed along to Captain Hill on behalf of the
          Trustees.
Assistant Chief Adam Smith:
     • The new medic is now in service at Station 91.
     • The new engine for Station 92 is in final outfitting, with delivery expected next week.
     • Work began today on the kitchen remodel at Station 93, with the remodel for Station 92
          scheduled to begin next week.
Human Resources Manager Catherine Grossman:
     • Mrs. Barb Duhl has announced her intent to retire effective March 2, 2026; recruitment for a
          new Accounts Payable position will begin.
     • Part-time to full-time firefighter interviews will be held next week.
     • Open enrollment for full-time staff and elected officials closes on December 15.
     • Fire Marshal Parsons and Community Safety Liaison Megan Schiff will present to the Union
          County Safety Council tomorrow.
     • Ms. Grossman noted that OCLC staff provided exceptional support during the holiday party,
          especially considering they do not traditionally host after-hours events.
Fiscal Officer Scott Melody:
     • Mr. Melody noted he will work closely with Ms. Grossman on filling the Accounts Payable
          position, with the goal of having a new hire in place by February to allow for one month of
          training before Mrs. Duhl’s departure.
Trustee Chuck Kranstuber:
     • Mr. Kranstuber expressed to City Manager O’Callaghan and Mr. Richter his interest in keeping
          the Monterey Drive property in consideration as potential green space for the community.
Executive Session – Personnel – To Consider the Appointment, Employment, Dismissal, Discipline,
Promotion, Demotion or Compensation of a Public Employee or Official, or the Investigation of
Charges or Complaints Against a Public Employee, Official, Licensee, or Regulated Individual, Unless
the Employee, Official, Licensee, or Regulated Individual Requests a Public Hearing by Division (G)(1)
of Section 121.22 of the Revised Code:
Mr. Kranstuber introduced and moved to enter into Executive Session to consider the appointment,
employment, dismissal, discipline, promotion, demotion or compensation of a public employee or
official, or the investigation of charges or complaints against a public employee, official, licensee, or
regulated individual, unless the employee, official, licensee, or regulated individual requests a public
hearing by division (G)(1) of section 121.22 of the Revised Code at approximately 8:53 p.m., seconded by
Mr. Harris. Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township Trustees that were present
voting Aye.                                                                               #2025.12.09.026
Reconvened:
The meeting reconvened at approximately 9:25 p.m. with the following action:
Discussion:
Mr. Rozanski stated the Board of Trustees completed Mr. Richter’s annual performance review in
executive session.
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and approve a four and a half percent (4.5%) performance bonus for
the year 2025, and increase Mr. Richter’s salary by five and a half percent (5.5%), effective with the first
pay date in 2026, seconded by Mr. Harris. Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township
Trustees whom were present voting Aye.                                                    #2025.12.09.027
Adjourn Meeting:
Motion by Mr. Rozanski, seconded by Mr. Kranstuber, to adjourn the meeting of December 9, 2025 at
approximately 9:34 p.m.                                                                    #2025.12.09.028




_____________________________________                          _______________________________
Mr. Jan Rozanski, Chair                                           Mr. Scott Melody, Fiscal Officer
