Minutes of February 10, 2026

Record of Proceedings
The Washington Township Board of Trustees regularly scheduled meeting held at Washington Township
Administration Building, 6200 Eiterman Road, Dublin, Ohio, on February 10, 2026, at 6:00 p.m., with Mr.
Charles Kranstuber, Chairman, calling the meeting to order, and it opened with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Roll call – Mr. Charles Kranstuber, Chair – Present
            Mr. Stu Harris, Vice Chair – Present
            Mr. Jan Rozanski, Trustee – Present
Franklin County Deputy Sheriff’s Report:
Deputy Burton Haren with Franklin County Sheriff’s Office (FCSO) submitted a written and verbal report
to the Trustees for January 14 through February 10, 2026, including an update on the following:
    • During this period, there were nineteen (19) Total Calls for Service / Self-Initiated Activity, three
          (3) Total Reports Taken, and four (4) Total Arrests / Citations:
               o Deputy Haren indicated a January 25th domestic violence incident that occurred in the
                   Township is still open and under investigation.
               o Deputy Haren provided a reminder to residents that the FCSO app is available to
                   download and provides important FCSO news, including snow emergency levels.
                                                                                             Append #001
Swearing-In of George P. Sorge II as Training & Safety Manager for the WTFD:
Mr. Kranstuber administered the oath of office to the following:
    • George P. Sorge II as Full-Time Probationary Training and Safety Manager. His badge was pinned
          by his son, Andrew.
Chief Donahue opened the ceremony by emphasizing the significance of the oath and the honor
represented by the badge. He highlighted George’s strong commitment to firefighter safety,
professional development, and operational excellence.
Chief Donahue noted that George brings several decades of experience. He served over twenty (20)
years with the Norwich Township Fire Department, as a Lieutenant and Paramedic. During his tenure, he
was actively involved in training, supervision, emergency response, and served as Assistant Training
Coordinator. Most recently, George served as Deputy Fire Chief with the City of Westerville. His
leadership consistently emphasized preparation, accountability, and teamwork.
With extensive certifications, a degree in Fire Administration, and a passion for mentoring and
development, Chief Donahue stated that George is well prepared to lead the Township’s training and
safety initiatives and proudly welcomed him into this vital role.
Opportunity for Residents to Speak:
No comments.
Resolution to Conclude James R. Ross Jr.’s Employment as Full-Time Training & Safety Manager for the
Purpose of Retirement:
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
A RESOLUTION CONCLUDING JAMES R. ROSS JR. EMPLOYMENT AS FULL-TIME TRAINING & SAFETY
MANAGER
WHEREAS, the Board of Township Trustees of Washington Township hired James R. Ross Jr. on January
1, 1993, and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees for Washington Township recognizes James R. Ross Jr. has voluntarily
resigned from his position with the intention of retiring.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of Washington Township, Franklin,
Delaware, and Union Counties, State of Ohio:
        Section 1: The Board of Trustees hereby approves the retirement of:
                  Name:                       James R. Ross Jr.
                  Position / Department: Training & Safety Manager / Fire
                  Classification:             Full-Time
                  Effective date:             February 13, 2026
        Section 2: James R. Ross Jr. is eligible for rehire;
        Section 3: It is hereby found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                    relating to the passage of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
                    Board and that all deliberations of the Board and any of the decision making bodies of
                    the Board of Trustees which resulted in such formal actions were in meetings open to
                    the public in compliance with all legal requirements of the State of Ohio.
        Section 4: All prior legislation, or any parts thereof, which is/are inconsistent with this
                    Resolution is/are hereby repealed as to the inconsistent parts thereof.
Mr. Harris seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington Township
Trustees who were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted February 10, 2026.                 #2026.02.10.001
                                                                                                Append #002
Resolution to Promote Kasey J. Swank as Full-Time Firefighter/EMT-B:
Motion:
Mr. Rozanski introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
RESOLUTION TO PROMOTE KASEY J. SWANK AS FULL-TIME PROBATIONARY FIREFIGHTER / EMT-B
WHEREAS, Washington Township provides fire suppression and prevention and emergency medical
services to its constituents, and;
WHEREAS, a need to fill a vacancy, occurring on December 30, 2025, in the position of Firefighter /
Paramedic and;
WHEREAS, to adequately provide services, it is necessary to fill the vacancy in the position, and;
WHEREAS, the appointment is being recommended by the human resource manager, fire chief and
township administrator;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE BOARD OF TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES OF WASHINGTON
TOWNSHIP, FRANKLIN, DELAWARE, AND UNION COUNTIES, OHIO THAT:
        Section 1: The Board approves the promotion of:
                  Name:            Kasey J. Swank
                  Position:        Probationary Firefighter / EMT-B
                  Classification: Uniformed Full-Time Non-Exempt
                  Base Salary:     $73,355.90
                  Effective date: February 14, 2026
        Section 2: It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                    relating to the adoption of this resolution were adopted in an open meeting of this
                    Board, and that all deliberations of the Board and any of its committees that resulted
                    in such formal action, were in meetings open to the public, in compliance with all legal
                    requirements including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
        Section 3: This Resolution shall take effect and be in force at the earliest time permitted by law.
Mr. Harris seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington Township
Trustees who were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted February 10, 2026.                 #2026.02.10.002
                                                                                                Append #003
Resolution to Conclude Brody M. McLaughlin’s Employment as Part-Time Firefighter/EMT-B for the
Purpose of Accepting Full-Time Employment Elsewhere:
Motion:
Mr. Harris introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
A RESOLUTION CONCLUDING BRODY M. McLAUGHLIN’S EMPLOYMENT AS PART-TIME FIREFIGHTER /
EMT-B
WHEREAS, the Board of Township Trustees of Washington Township hired Brody M. McLaughlin on
March 6, 2025, and;
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees for Washington Township recognizes Brody M. McLaughlin has
voluntarily resigned his position to accept full-time employment elsewhere.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of Washington Township, Franklin,
Delaware, and Union Counties, State of Ohio:
        Section 1: The Board of Trustees hereby approves the resignation of:
                 Name:                        Brody M. McLaughlin
                 Position / Department: Firefighter-EMT-B / Fire
                 Classification:              Part-Time
                 Effective date:              February 1, 2026
        Section 2: Brody M. McLaughlin is eligible for rehire;
        Section 3: It is hereby found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                   relating to the passage of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
                   Board and that all deliberations of the Board and any of the decision making bodies of
                   the Board of Trustees which resulted in such formal actions were in meetings open to
                   the public in compliance with all legal requirements of the State of Ohio.
        Section 4: All prior legislation, or any parts thereof, which is/are inconsistent with this
                   Resolution is/are hereby repealed as to the inconsistent parts thereof.
Mr. Kranstuber seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington
Township Trustees who were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted February 10, 2026.
                                                                                             #2026.02.10.003
                                                                                                Append #004
Resolution to Rescind Adelaide H. Standley’s Offer of Employment as a Part-Time Firefighter/EMT-B
Due to Accepting Full-Time Employment Elsewhere:
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
RESOLUTION TO RESCIND ADELAIDE H. STANDLEY OFFER OF EMPLOYEMENT AS A PART-TIME
PROBATIONARY FIREFIGHTER / PARAMEDIC
WHEREAS, Washington Township offered Adelaide H. Standley part-time employment as a Firefighter /
EMT-B beginning January 15, 2026, and;
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of Washington Township adopted a resolution, on January 13, 2026, to
hire Adelaide H. Standley, and;
WHEREAS, Aedelaide H. Standely contacted the Township’s Human Resource Manager on January 14,
2026, communicating her decision to decline the Township’s employment offer to accept full-time
employment elsewhere.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of Washington Township, Franklin,
Delaware, and Union Counties, State of Ohio:
        Section 1: The Board of Trustees hereby rescinds the following offer of employment:
                 Name:             Adelaide H. Standley
                 Position:        Probationary Firefighter / Paramedic
                 Classification: Uniformed / Part-Time Non-Exempt / Fire
        Section 2: It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                   relating to the adoption of this resolution were adopted in an open meeting of this
                   Board, and that all deliberations of the Board and any of its committees that resulted
                   in such formal action, were in meetings open to the public, in compliance with all legal
                   requirements including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
        Section 3: This Resolution shall take effect and be in force at the earliest time permitted by law.
Mr. Harris seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington Township
Trustees who were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted February 10, 2026.                #2026.02.10.004
                                                                                               Append #005
Resolution to Extend Data Center Development Moratorium within the Unincorporated Territory of
the Township:
Discussion:
Mr. Richter explained that the resolution specifically references Tier 2-4 data centers, pursuant to
comments made by Fiscal Officer Melody at the previous meeting. The moratorium will extend through
September 5, during which time the Township will research updates to the Zoning Resolution to include,
among other items, the prohibition of large-scale data centers within the unincorporated territory of the
Township.
Motion:
Mr. Rozanski introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
RESOLUTION EXTENDING DATA CENTER DEVELOPMENT MORATORIUM WITHIN THE
UNINCORPORATED TERRITORY OF THE TOWNSHIP (Ohio Revised Code Section 519.02)
WHEREAS, the Board approved a comprehensive land use plan for the Township in November 2005 (the
“Land Use Plan”);
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that large scale data centers are inconsistent with residential land
uses as outlined in the Land Use Plan by requiring heavy water and electric service, causing air and noise
pollution and posing significant fire and emergency medical issues;
WHEREAS, the Board on December 9, 2025 voted to approve a 90-day moratorium on the approval or
construction of large scale data centers within the Township, expiring March 9, 2026;
WHEREAS, House Bill 646 has been introduced as emergency legislation in the Ohio General Assembly to
create a state-level data center study commission to examine the impacts of data centers on the
environment, electrical grid, water usage, noise and light pollution, local economy and farmland use,
among other issues;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Township Trustees of the Township of Washington,
Franklin, Delaware and Union Counties, Ohio, that:
        Section 1: The Board hereby extends its large scale data center (Data Center Tiers 2-4)
                   development moratorium six months, from March 9, 2026 to September 5, 2026.
        Section 2: It is hereby found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                   relating to the passage of this Resolution were taken in an open meeting of this Board,
                   and that all deliberations of this Board and of any of its committees that resulted in
                   such formal action were in meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal
                   requirements, including Ohio Revised Code Section 121.22.
Mr. Harris seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington Township
Trustees who were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted February 10, 2026.                #2026.02.10.005
                                                                                               Append #006
Resolution to Accept a Financial Gift of $1,000 to the Washington Township Fire Department, and
Crediting This Gift to the Capital Improvements Fund:
Discussion:
Mr. Richter reported that he spoke with Ms. Wolfe and invited her to attend the Trustee meeting. Ms.
Wolfe acknowledged that her taxes support Washington Township Fire Department services but
emphasized that multiple crews responded to her family’s calls consistently exhibiting tremendous care
and compassion.
Mr. Richter stated that he will provide Ms. Wolfe with a copy of the signed resolution and a formal letter
of appreciation on behalf of the Trustees and the Fire Department. The resolution authorizes acceptance
of the gift and credits the funds to the Capital Improvements Fund.
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING A FINANCIAL GIFT OF $1,000 TO THE WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP FIRE
DEPARTMENT, AND CREDITING THIS GIFT TO THE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS FUND
WHEREAS, City of Dublin resident Claire Wolfe sent a card of gratitude to the Washington Township Fire
Department expressing her gratitude to the “incredibly kind, competent EMT’s” who cared for her
husband over the last 1-2 years; and
WHEREAS, Ms. Wolfe shared that their care and support was very much appreciated during her
husband’s illness; and
WHEREAS, in memory of her husband, John, and their shared gratitude for the kindness and
professionalism of the Washington Township Fire Department; and
WHEREAS, the Washington Township Board of Trustees accepts this financial gift from the Wolfe family
to be credited to the Washington Township Capital Improvements Fund (fund 430). Contributions and
transfers to this fund are utilized to provide enhanced, state-of-the art lifesaving equipment for our
firefighter/paramedics to provide exceptional care and outcomes for the patients we respond to.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of Washington Township, Franklin,
Delaware, and Union Counties, State of Ohio:
         Section 1: The Board of Trustees hereby accepts a financial gift of $1,000 from the Wolfe family
                    to the credit of the Capital Improvements Fund.
         Section 2: It is hereby found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                    relating to the passage of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
                    Board and that all deliberations of the Board and any of the decision making bodies of
                    the Board of Trustees which resulted in such formal actions were in meetings open to
                    the public in compliance with all legal requirements of the State of Ohio.
Mr. Harris seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington Township
Trustees who were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted February 10, 2026.                #2026.02.10.006
                                                                                               Append #007
Resolution to Authorize and Direct the Township Administrator to Execute a Landscape Service
Agreement with Brightview Landscape Services for Bed Care, Flowers, and Mowing, Cost Not to
Exceed $35,100:
Discussion:
Mr. Richter stated that the BrightView contracts are consistent with prior years and reflect a 0% increase
over 2025 pricing. He acknowledged that service challenges arose following the company’s post-
pandemic merger; however, service performance has since improved.
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE TOWNSHIP ADMINISTRATOR TO EXECUTE A
LANDSCAPE SERVICE AGREEMENT WITH BRIGHTVIEW LANDSCAPE SERVICES FOR BED CARE, FLOWERS,
AND MOWING, COST NOT TO EXCEED $35,100.00.
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees understands the importance of having the landscape at the Township
properties and community common areas well-maintained. This includes bed weed control, seasonal
bed detailing and fertilization, pruning ornamental trees and shrubs, installing seasonal flowers/color,
and mowing services; and
WHEREAS, Washington Township cannot adequately handle these services in-house; and
WHEREAS, BrightView Landscape Services previously provided the Township these services; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of Washington Township now wants to enter into a new one (1) year
Landscape Service Agreement with BrightView Landscape Service for bed care, flowers, and mowing
(beginning on January 1, 2026 and ending on December 31, 2026).
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of Washington Township, Franklin,
Delaware, and Union Counties, State of Ohio:
        Section 1: The Board of Trustees hereby authorizes and directs the Township Administrator to
                   execute a Landscape Service Agreement with BrightView Landscape Services, for bed
                   care, flowers, and mowing at the Township Facilities (as set forth in the scope of
                   services), in substantially the same form and content as the Landscape Service
                   Agreement and Scope of Services attached hereto as Exhibits A and B and
                   incorporated herein by reference.
        Section 2: It is hereby found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                   relating to the passage of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
                   Board and that all deliberations of the Board and any of the decision making bodies of
                   the Board of Trustees which resulted in such formal actions were in meetings open to
                   the public in compliance with all legal requirements of the State.
Mr. Rozanski seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington
Township Trustees who were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted February 10, 2026.
                                                                                           #2026.02.10.007
                                                                                               Append #008
Resolution to Authorize and Direct the Township Administrator to Execute a Landscape Service
Agreement with Brightview Landscape Services for Turf Fertilization as well as Spring/Fall Operations,
Cost Not to Exceed $15,000:
Motion:
Mr. Harris introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE TOWNSHIP ADMINISTRATOR TO EXECUTE A
LANDSCAPE SERVICE AGREEMENT WITH BRIGHTVIEW LANDSCAPE SERVICES FOR TURF FERTILIZATION
AS WELL AS SPRING/FALL OPERATIONS, COST NOT TO EXCEED $15,000.00.
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees understands the importance of having the turf at the Township
properties well-maintained. This includes fertilizing the ±12 acres of turf at the Administrative Building,
Amlin Crossing Park, the Cosgray Road Cemetery, as well as all four Fire Stations. Work also is needed in
the spring to clean up the landscape beds and in the fall to pick up leaves and winterize the landscape
beds (“Spring/Fall Operations”); and
WHEREAS, Washington Township cannot adequately fertilize all this turf or provide these other services
in-house; and
WHEREAS, BrightView Landscape Services previously provided the Township these services, and the
Township has found their services to be adequate; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of Washington Township now wants to enter into a new one (1) year
Landscape Service Agreement with BrightView Landscape Service for turf fertilization and Spring/Fall
Operations (beginning on January 1, 2026 and ending on December 31, 2026).
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of Washington Township, Franklin,
Delaware, and Union Counties, State of Ohio:
         Section 1: The Board of Trustees hereby authorizes and directs the Township Administrator to
                    execute a Landscape Service Agreement with BrightView Landscape Services, for turf
                    fertilization and Spring/Fall Operations (as set forth in the scope of services), in
                    substantially the same form and content as the Landscape Service Agreement and
                    Scope of Services attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.
         Section 2: It is hereby found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                    relating to the passage of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
                    Board and that all deliberations of the Board and any of the decision making bodies of
                    the Board of Trustees which resulted in such formal actions were in meetings open to
                    the public in compliance with all legal requirements of the State of Ohio.
Mr. Rozanski seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington
Township Trustees who were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted February 10, 2026.
                                                                                             #2026.02.10.008
                                                                                                 Append #009
Motion to Authorize the Township Administrator to Enter into an Agreement with Phoenix Safety
Outfitters LLC for Firefighting Personal Protective Equipment, Cost Not to Exceed $46,500:
Discussion:
Chief Donahue explained that this is the standard semiannual purchase of fourteen (14) sets of turnout
gear. Pricing continues under the NAS-T cooperative purchasing agreement.
Motion:
Mr. Rozanski moved to introduce and authorize the Township Administrator to enter into an agreement
with Phoenix Safety Outfitters LLC for firefighting personal protective equipment, cost not to exceed
$46,500, seconded by Mr. Harris. Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township
Trustees who were present voting Aye.                                                        #2026.02.10.009
                                                                                                 Append #010
Motion to Authorize the Township Administrator to Enter into an Agreement with Turnouts LLC for
the Inspection, Maintenance, and Repair of Firefighting Personal Protective Equipment, Cost Not to
Exceed $29,592:
Discussion:
Chief Donahue explained that this agreement covers the annual advanced inspection, maintenance, and
repair of fire gear. Beginning this year, repair costs will be invoiced separately from the base inspection
services.
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and authorize the Township Administrator to enter into an
agreement with Turnouts LLC for the inspection, maintenance, and repair of firefighting personal
protective equipment, cost not to exceed $29,592, seconded by Mr. Harris. Motion passed with all
members of the Washington Township Trustees who were present voting Aye.                     #2026.02.10.010
                                                                                                 Append #011
Motion to Authorize the Township Administrator to Enter into an Agreement with JD Johnson Sales
and Service for the Purchase of Emergency Warning Equipment and Command Vault, Cost Not to
Exceed $19,000:
Discussion:
Chief Smith reported that this agreement will outfit the previously approved new Battalion Chief vehicle.
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and authorize the Township Administrator to enter into an
agreement with JD Johnson Sales and Service for the purchase of emergency warning equipment and
command vault, cost not to exceed $19,000, seconded by Mr. Harris. Motion passed with all members
of the Washington Township Trustees who were present voting Aye.                       #2026.02.10.011
                                                                                           Append #012
Motion to Authorize the Township Administrator to Enter into an Agreement with CPSE Technical
Advisory Program to Facilitate the Development of a Comprehensive Strategic Plan to Support
Organizational Effectiveness and Accreditation Requirements, Cost Not to Exceed $18,800:
Discussion:
Chief Donahue explained that the previous strategic plan was developed internally. This proposal would
engage CPSE to facilitate development of a comprehensive, customer-driven strategic plan incorporating
both internal and external input, ensuring alignment between departmental goals and community
expectations and supporting accreditation requirements.
Responding to Mr. Kranstuber’s inquiry, Chief Donahue indicated he would explore the possibility of
using CPSE for the Township’s broader strategic planning but noted CPSE’s primary focus is fire service
organizations.
Responding to Mr. Harris, Chief Donahue explained that a panel conducted a SWOT (Strengths,
Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats) Analysis to develop the previous plan.
Motion:
Mr. Harris moved to introduce and authorize the Township Administrator to enter into an agreement
with CPSE Technical Advisory Program to facilitate the development of a comprehensive strategic plan
to support organizational effectiveness and Accreditation requirements, cost not to exceed $18,800,
seconded by Mr. Rozanski. Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township Trustees who
were present voting Aye.                                                               #2026.02.10.012
                                                                                           Append #013
Motion to Authorize the Township Administrator to Enter into an Agreement with VASU
Communications for the Purchase of Portable Radios and Accessories, Cost Not to Exceed $13,900:
Discussion:
Chief Smith stated that this agreement will equip the previously approved new Battalion Chief vehicle
with portable radios and related accessories.
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and authorize the Township Administrator to enter into an
agreement with VASU Communications for the purchase of portable radios and accessories, cost not to
exceed $13,900, seconded by Mr. Harris. Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township
Trustees who were present voting Aye.                                                  #2026.02.10.013
                                                                                           Append #014
Motion to Approve Meeting Minutes:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and approve the minutes from the January 13, 2026, Board of
Trustees Meeting, seconded by Mr. Rozanski. Motion passed with all members of the Washington
Township Trustees who were present voting Aye.                                         #2026.02.10.014
                                                                                           Append #015
Motion to Approve Consent Agenda:
Mr. Rozanski moved to introduce and approve the Consent Agenda as presented and as follows,
seconded by Mr. Harris:
        o Bills: December 31, 2025                   $ 55,024.18
        o Bills: January 8, 2026                     $ 58,936.40
        o Bills: January 29, 2026                    $ 174,421.96
        o Payroll: January 16, 2026                  $ 716,169.99
        o Payroll: January 30, 2026                  $ 624,057.31
        o Payroll: Monthly February 6, 2026          $     9,980.84
        o December Appropriation Transfers           $ 106,064.74
        o January 2026 Medical Payments              $ 469,950.90
        o January 2026 Electronic Payments           $2,150,637.80
        o December 2025 Monthly Report
Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township Trustees who were present voting Aye.
                                                                                          #2026.02.10.015
                                                                                             Append #016
Round Table Discussions:
Township Administrator Eric Richter:
    • Mr. Richer reported that under the Township’s contract with the City of Dublin for snow
        removal in the Amlin Alleys, service was well executed following the recent snowstorm. A
        resident expressed appreciation for the work completed.
    • The Strategic Planning Session was confirmed for Friday, March 20, from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.
    • Mr. Richter included news articles in the packet regarding Governor DeWine’s creation of a
        state-level data center commission and Jerome Township’s recent data center approvals
        following its moratorium.
    • Mr. Richter reported on the Ohio Township Association (OTA) Winter Conference and Coalition
        of Large Ohio Urban Townships (CLOUT) meeting. Petitions are being circulated for a proposed
        constitutional amendment to eliminate property taxes. If signature thresholds are met, the issue
        could appear on the November ballot. Mr. Richter shared a memorandum from the Ohio Office
        of Budget and Management (OBM) and noted the significant potential impacts on public
        services, including schools, the Township, and the Fire Department.
Chief John Donahue:
    • Chief Donahue expressed appreciation to the Trustees and Mr. Richter for supporting the
        January 29 Annual Awards Banquet at Dublin Golf Club. He recognized the efforts of the awards
        committee and noted key recognitions, including Firefighter and Officer of the Year. Battalion
        Chief Mike Riebel, Officer of the Year, was in attendance.
    • Chief Donahue reported that he and George Sorge visited Tolles Career and Technical Center to
        recognize a student who cleared fire hydrants during the recent snowstorm. The student, who
        serves as Captain of the junior high program, was presented a departmental challenge coin.
    • Chief Donahue recognized Jamie Ross, who will retire Friday after 34 years of service with
        Washington Township Fire Department. A retirement gathering will be held from 11:30 a.m. to
        2:30 p.m. Chief Donahue thanked him for his service and for assisting with a smooth transition
        in the Training and Safety Manager role. He also expressed his appreciation to the Trustees for
        approving George’s start date to allow cross-training prior to Jamie’s departure.
    • Chief Donahue presented the monthly report for January. There were 587 calls for service
        during the month, despite the extreme cold conditions. Several sprinkler system breaks
        occurred, and personnel performed effectively in mitigating related damage.
    •   Chief Donahue highlighted the hiring of Kasey Swank as a full-time firefighter. Kasey is the son of
        Charles Swank, a Washington Township Fire Department firefighter who passed away during a
        training session with the department. Kasey’s older brother serves part-time with the
        department, and Charles’ brother is a full-time member.
Human Resources Manager Catherine Grossman:
    • Ms. Grossman reminded the Trustees that the Administration Building will be closed Monday in
        observance of Presidents’ Day.
    • Ms. Grossman reported that a candidate has been identified for the Accounting Clerk position
        and a contingent offer has been extended. The background process is underway. A hiring
        resolution will likely be presented at the next meeting. A resolution regarding Barb Duhl’s
        retirement will follow once her final date is confirmed.
Fiscal Officer Scott Melody:
    • Mr. Melody reported that the fiscal office is preparing for required state reporting and the
        upcoming audit.
Trustee Jan Rozanski:
    • Chief Smith replied to Mr. Rozanski’s request for a comparison of the January call volume
        between 2025 and 2026. He indicated calls were approximately twenty (20) fewer than January
        2025.
Trustee Stu Harris:
    • Responding to Mr. Harris’ question, Chief Donahue confirmed the 2025 Annual Report will be
        emailed upon completion and will be a topic of discussion during the Strategic Planning Session
        in March.
Trustee Chuck Kranstuber:
    • Mr. Kranstuber approached the topic of the constitutional amendment and asked for the
        thoughts of Mr. Harris and Mr. Melody, as former school board members. Mr. Harris stated
        property tax represents the largest portion of school funding. Mr. Rozanski acknowledged
        property tax elimination would impact Township levies and the ability to supplement the Fire
        Fund with funds from the General Fund.
    • Mr. Kranstuber provided an update regarding the letter he sent to members of Dublin City
        Council concerning cemetery expansion and alternative solutions. He has not yet received a
        response. Mr. Richter indicated Councilmember Wendy Johnson reached out to schedule a
        meeting to discuss the matter, among other topics. Councilmember Johnson noted that Mr.
        Kranstuber’s letter was received and distributed to all Councilmembers, but has not yet
        appeared on the Council agenda. She added that she will provide additional information
        regarding the Monterey development when she attends the February 24 meeting.
Adjourn Meeting:
Mr. Kranstuber adjourned the meeting of February 10, 2026 at approximately 6:43 p.m.
                                                                                         #2026.02.10.016




_____________________________________                         _______________________________
Mr. Charles Kranstuber, Chair                                 Mr. Scott Melody, Fiscal Officer
