                                                                     IIIII IIll IIll II IIIIII IIll I II I111111111111111
                                                                     2026 0 5070 0 0 381 0                    5/7/2026
                                                                     Pages:98 F:$20.00                       11:22AM
                                                                     Karen J. Rlffie                   T20260003036
                                                                     Uni on Corn1ty Recorder DOC:ZON RES


Paris Town ship
Union County, Ohio

Zoning Resolution
 Amendment




   This version: Amended and restated to reflect amendments adopted April 7, 2026.


                   INDEX OF ZONING REGULATIONS                                       (
                                                                             Page
PREAMBLE                                                                      1

ARTICLE I     INTERPRETATION & APPLICATION                                    1
              OF THE RESOLUTIONl

              Section 100 - Title
              Section 101 - Use of Land or Buildings for
                            Agricultural Purposes Not Affected
              Section 102 - Medical Marijuana
              Section 109 - Compliance with Regulations
              Section 110 - Provisions of Resolution Declared to
                            be the Minimum Requirements
              Section 120 - Separability Clause
              Section 130 - Replacement of Existing Resolution,
                            Effective Date

ARTICLE II    ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS                                       4

              Section 200 - Zoning Districts
              Section 210 - District Regulations
              Section 220 - Prohibited Uses                                         !
                                                                                     \


ARTICLE III   ENFORCEMENT                                                      5

              Section 300 - Zoning permits Required
              Section 301 - Contents of Application for Zoning Permit
              Section 302 - Approval of Zoning Permit
              Section 303 - Submission to Director of Transportation ..
              Section 304 - Expiration of Zoning Permit
              Section 310 - Certificate of Compliance
              Section 312 - Record of Zoning Permits and
                            Certificates of Compliance.
              Section 320 - Construction and Use To Be As Provided In
                            Applications, Plans, Permits, and Certificates
              Section 340 - Complaints Regarding Violations
              Section 350 - Penalties for Violation
              Section 360 - Schedule of Fees, Charges, and Expenses

ARTICLE IV    NON-CONFORMITIES                                                 8

              Section 400 - Intent
              Section 410 - Incompatibility of Non-Conformities
              Section 420 - Avoidance of Undue Hardship
              Section 430 - Single Non-Conforming Lots of Record                    (--


            Section 431 - Non-Conforming Lots of Record in Combination
            Section 440- Non-Conforming Uses of Land
            Section 450 - Non-Conforming Structures
            Section 460 - Non-Conforming Uses of Structures or of
                          Structures and Premises in Combination
            Section 470 - Repairs and Maintenance

ARTICLE V   ADMINISTRATION                                                     11

            Section 500 - Office of Zoning Inspector Created
            Section 501 - Duties of the Zoning Inspector
            Section 510 - Zoning Commission
            Section 511 - Proceedings of Zoning Commission
            Section 512 - Duties of Zoning Commission
            Section 520 - T he Board of Zoning Appeals
            Section 521 - Proceedings of the Board of Zoning Appeals
            Section 522 - Duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals
            Section 530 - Duties of Zoning Inspector, Board of Zoning
                          Appeals, Legislative Authority and
                          Courts on Matters of Appeal
            Section 540 - Procedure and Requirements for
                          Appeals and Variances
            Section 541 - Appeals
            Section 542 - Stay of Proceedings
            Section 543 - Variances
            Section 544 - Application and Standards for Variances
            Section 545 - Supplementary Conditions and Safeguards
            Section 546 - Public Hearing by the Board of Zoning Appeals
            Section 547 - Notice of Public Hearing in Newspaper
            Section 548 - Notice to Parties in Interest
            Section 549 - Action by Board of Zoning Appeals
            Section 560 - Procedure and Requirements
                          for Approval of Cond itional Use Permits
            Section 561 - General
            Section 562 - Contents of Application for Conditional Use Permit
            Section 563 - General Standards App licable to all
                          Conditional Uses
            Section 564 - General Conditions Applicable to All
                          Cond itional Uses
            Section 565 - Supplementary Cond itions and Safeguards
            Section 566 - Procedure for Hearing, Notice
            Section 567 - Action by the Board of Zoning Appeals
            Section 568 - Expiration of Conditional Use Permit
            Section 569 - Filing Effective and Permit Effective
            Section 570 - Procedure for Amendment or District Changes
            Section 571 - General
            Section 572 - Initiation of Zoning Amendments

                                   II


              Section 573 - Contents of Application
              Section 574 - Transmittal to Zoning Commission
              Section 575 - Involvement of the Regional Planning Commission
              Section 576 - Submission to Director of Transportation
              Section 577 - Recommendation by Zoning Commission
              Section 578 - Public Hearing by Township Trustees
              Section 579 - Notice of Pub Iic Hearing in Newspaper
              Section 580 - Action by Township Trustees
              Section 581 - Effective Date and Referendum
              Section 582 - Official Zoning Map
              Section 583 - Identification of the Official Zoning Map
              Section 584 - Interpretation of District Boundaries

ARTICLE VI    U-1 Farm/ Residential District                                      20

              Section 610 - U-1 Farm / Residential District Purpose
              Section 611 - U-1 Farm / Residential District Permitted Uses
              Section 612 - U- 1 Farm / Residential Conditional Uses
              Section 613 - U- 1 Farm / Residential District
                            Development Standards
              Section 614 - U-1 Farm / Residential District
                            Minimum Lot Area
              Section 615 - U- 1 Farm / Residential District Minimum
                            Lot Width and Frontage
              Section 616 - U-1 Farm / Residential District Minimum
                            Yard Setbacks
              Section 617 - U-1 Farm / Residential District
                            Maximum Building Height
              Section 618 - U-1 Farm / Residential District Minimum
                            Living Space Requirements
              Section 619 - U-1 Farm / Residential District Maximum
                            Lot Coverage
              Section 620 - U-1 Farm / Residential District Required Lot Ratios

              Section 621 - U-1 Farm / Residential District Screening
                             and/or Landscaping
              Section 622 - U-1 Farm / Residential District Off-street
                            Parking and Loading
              Section 623 - U-1 Farm / Residential District Signs

ARTICLE VII   R-1 Low Density Residential                                         24

              Section 710- R-1 Low Density Residential District Purpose
              Section 711- R-1 Low Density Residential District
                             Permitted Uses


                                     Ill


               Section 712 - R-1 Low Density Residential District
                             Conditional Uses
               Section 713 - R-1 Low Density Residential District
                             Development Standards
               Section 714 - R- 1 Low Density Residential District
                             Minimum Lot Area
               Section 715 - R-1 Low Density Residential District -
                             M inimum Lot Width and Frontage
               Section 716 - R- 1 Low Density Residential District
                             Minimum Yard Setbacks
               Section 717 - R-1 Low Density Residential District
                             Maximum Building Height
               Section 718 - R-1 Low Density Residential District
                             Minimum Living Space Requirements
               Section 719 - R-1 Low Density Residential District
                             Maximum Lot Coverage
               Section 720 - R-1 Low Density Residential District
                             Required Lot Ratios
               Section 721- R- 1 Low Density Residential District
                             Screening and/or Landscaping
               Section 722- R-1 Low Density Residential District
                             Off-street Parking and Loading
               Section 723 - R-1 Low Density Residential District Signs

ARTICLE VIII   B-2 Local Business District                                  27

               Section 810 - B-2 Local Business District Purpose
               Section 811 - B-2 Local Business District Permitted Uses
               Section 812 - B-2 Local Business District Conditional Uses
               Section 813 - B-2 Local Business District Development
                             Standards
               Section 814 - B-2 Local Business District Minimum Lot Area
               Section 815 - B-2 Local Business District - Minimum Lot
                             Width and Frontage
               Section 816 - B-2 Local Business District Minimum
                             Yard Setbacks
               Section 817 - B-2 Local Business District Maximum
                             Building Height
               Section 818 - B-2 Local Business District Maximum
                             Lot Coverage
               Section 819 - B-2 Local Business District Screening
                             and/or Landscaping
               Section 820 - B-2 Local Business District Parking
               Section 822 - Maximum Building Square Footage for Approved Business
                             Uses in the B-2 District



                                     IV


ARTICLE IX    M-2 Manufacturing District                                          29


              Section 910 - M-2 Manufacturing District Purpose
              Section 920 - M-2 Manufacturing District Permitted Uses
              Section 930 - M-2 Manufacturing District Conditional Uses
              Section 940 - M-2 Manufacturing District Development
                             Standards
              Section 941 - M-2 Manufacturing District Minimum Lot Size
              Section 942 - M-2 Manufacturing District Minimum Lot Width
              Section 943 - M-2 Manufacturing District Yard
                             Requirements and Setbacks
              Section 944 - M-2 Manufacturing District Maximum Lot
                            Coverage
              Section 945 - M-2 Manufacturing District Maximum
                            Building Height
              Section 946 - M-2 Manufacturing District Accessory Buildings
              Section 947 - M-2 Manufacturing District Design Standards

ARTICLEX      Parking and Storage of Certain Vehicles                             31

              Section 1010 - Parking and Storage of Certain Vehicles

ARTICLE XI    General Parking Regulations                                         32

              Section 1100 - General Requirements
              Section 1110 - Parking Space Dimensions
              Section 1111 - Loading Space Requirements and Dimensions
              Section 1112 - Paving
              Section 1116 - Location of Parking Spaces
              Section 1117 - Screening and/or Landscaping
              Section 1119 - Minimum Distance and Setbacks
              Section 1120 - Joint Use
              Section 1121 - Wheel Blocks
              Section 1122 - Width of Driveway Aisle
              Section 1130 - Parking space Requirements
              Section 1131 - General Interpretations

ARTICLE XII   Signs                                                               35

              Section 1200 - Intent
              Section 1201 - Governmental Signs Excluded
              Section 1202 - General Requirements for all Signs and Districts
              Section 1203 - Measurement of Sign Area
              Section 1210 - Signs Permitted in all Districts
                             not Requiring a Permit
              Section 1211 - Signs Permitted In All District Requiring a Permit

                                     V


               Section 1212 - Signs Permitted in Business and
                             Manufacturing Districts Requiring a Permit
               Section 1220 - Temporary Signs
               Section 1221 - Free Standing Signs
               Section 1222 - Wall Signs Pertaining to Non-Conforming Uses
               Section 1230 - Political Signs
               Section 1240 - Sign Setback Requirements
               Section 1241 - Increased Setback
               Section 1243 - Setbacks for Public and Quasi-public Signs
               Section 1250 - Limitation
               Section 1251 - Violations

ARTICLE XIII   Landscaping Requirements                                        38

               Section 1301 - Purpose
               Section 1302 - Township Rights
               Section 1303 - Reduction of Side and Year Lot Setbacks

ARTICLE XIV    Noise Regulations                                               39

               Section 1401 - Loud and Unnecessary noises prohibited
               Section 1402 - Certain Loud and Disturbing Noises
                             in Residential Subdivisions Enumerated
               Section 1404 - Measurement and Control of Noise

ARTICLE XV     Lighting Standards                                              41

               Section 1500 - Lighting Standards and Requirements
               Section 1501 - Lighting Standards (All Zoning Districts)

ARTICLE XVI    Adult Entertainment Facilities                                  42

               Section 1601 - Purpose and Intent
               Section 1602 - Permitted Ad ult Entertainment Establishments
               Section 1603 - Prohibited Adu lt Entertainment Establishments
               Section 1604 - General Conditions for Adult Ente1tainment
                               Facilities Use
               Section 1605 - Mainstream Shops Also Selling Adult Material
               Section 1606 - Adequate Drainage Outlet and Acceptable Soils
               Section 1607 - Water Pollution
               Section 1608 - Mining, Mineral, Sand and Gravel Extraction,
                               Storage and Processing
               Section 1609 - Roadside Produce Stands
               Section 1610 - Sanitary Landfill and Incinerator
               Section 1611 - Storage of Toxic or Hazardous Materials
               Section 1612 - Agritourism

                                      VI


               Section 1613 - Manufactured & Mobile Hornes / Mobile Horne
                               Parks Purpose
               Section 1614 - Manufactured Hornes Permitted Uses
               Section 1615 - Permanently Sited Manufactured Housing
               Section 1616 - Intent
               Section 1617 - Approval Procedures
               Section 1618 - General Standards for Mobile Horne Parks
               Section 1619 - Mobile Horne Park Requirements
               Section 1620 - Minimum Floor Area

ARTICLE XVII   Supplementary District Regulations                             48

               Section 1700 - General
               Section 1710 - Conversion of Dwellings to More Units
               Section 1720 - Temporary Buildings
               Section 1730 - Private Swimming Pools
               Section 1740 - Community or Club Swim ming Pools
               Section 1750 - Ponds/Wetlands
               Section 1758 - Small Solar Energy Systems (less than S0MW)
               Section 1760 - Telecommunications Towers
               Section 1761 - Exception to Telecommunications
                              Towers Regulations
               Section 1770 - Small Wind Energy Project Regulations
               Section 1771 - Authority
               Section 1772 - Purpose
               Section 1773 - Applicability
               Section 1774 - Terms relevant to Small Wind Energy
                               Project Regulation
               Section 1775 - Standards: Small Wind Energy Project
               Section 1776 - Standards : Met Tower
               Section 1777 - Permit Requirements
               Section 1778 - Abandonment
               Section 1779 - Conditional Use Permit Procedure
               Section 1780 - Violations
               Section 1781 - Enforcement
               Section 1782 - Penalties
               Section 1783 - Relationship to Other Regulations
               Section 1784 - Severability
               Section 1790 - Bed and Breakfast Operations

ARTICLE XVIII ADULT ENTERTAINMENT                                             60

               Section 1801 - Purpose and Intent
               Section 1802 - Permitted Adult Entertainment Establishments
               Section 1803 - Prohibited Adult Entertainment Establishments
               Section 1804 - General Conditions for Adult Entertainment
                              Facilities Use
               Section 1805 - Mainstream Shops Also Selling Adult Material
                                     Vil


ARTICLE XIX   INTERPRETATION & DEFINITIONS                      63

              Section 1900 - Interpretation of Terms or Words
              Section 1901 - Definitions

SIGNATURE BLOCK                                                 90




                                    viii


                                           PREAMBLE

     A RESOLUTION OF THE TOWNSHIP OF PARIS, UNION COUNTY, OHIO
ENACTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND THE PROVISION
OF CHAPTER 519, OHIO REVISED CODE, DIVIDING THE TOWNSHIP INTO ZONES
AND DISTRICTS, ENCOURAGING, REGULATING AND RESTRICTING THEREIN THE
LOCATION , CONSTRUCTION , RECONSTRUCTION , ALTERATION AND USE OF
STRUCTURES AND LAND : PROMOTING THE ORDERLY DEVELOPMENT OF
RESIDENTIAL, BUSINESS, INDUSTRIAL, RECREATION , AND PUBLIC AREAS:
PROVIDING FOR ADEQUATE LIGHT, AIR, AND CONVENIENCE OF ACCESS TO
PROPERTY BY REGULATING THE USE OF LAND AND BUILDINGS AND THE BULK
OF STRUCTURES IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAYS: PROVIDING THE COMPATIBILITY OF
DIFFERENT LAND USES AND THE MOST APPROPRIATE USE OF LAND: PROVIDING
FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THIS RESOLUTION AS PROVIDED HEREAFTER,
AND PRESCRIBING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE PROVISIONS IN THIS
RESOLUTION OR ANY AMENDMENT THERETO. ALL FOR THE PURPOSE OF
PROTECTING THE PUBLIC HEAL TH, SAFETY AND GENERAL WELFARE: AND FOR
THE AMENDMENT THEREOF.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES OF PARIS
TOWNSHIP, UNION COUNTY , OHIO.

      ARTICLE I-INTERPRETATION & APPLICATION OF THE RESOLUTION

Section 100 Title:
This Resolution shall be known and may be cited to as the "Zoning Resolution of the
Township of Paris, Union County, Ohio" .

Section 101 Use of Land or Buildings for Agricultural Purposes Not Affected:
It is the intent of this Resolution to be and remain in compliance with ORC 519.21 Powers not
conferred on township zoning commission by chapter. ORC 519.21 is a statute, created and
maintained by the State, which limits the authority of townships and establishes what is
commonly referred to as the "agriculture exemption". How ORC 519.21 impacts this Resolution
is described herein .

This Resolution does not affect the use of any land for agricultural purposes, or the construction
or use of buildings or structures incident to the use for agricultural purposes of the land on wh ich
such buildings or structures are located and no zoning certificate shall be required for any such
building or structure. (Residential dwellings do require a permit however.)

There are two conditions where the agriculture exemption does not apply. 1) In any platted
subdivision; and, 2) In any area consisting of fifteen or more lots approved under ORC 711.131
that arc contiguous to one another, or some of which are contiguous to one another and adjacent
to one side of a dedicated public road, and the balance of which are contiguous to one another
and adjacent to the opposite side of the same dedicated public road. When either of these two
conditions exist, the requirements of thi s Resolution apply to :


                                               2


    1. Agriculture on lots of one acre or less; and,
    2. Buildings or structures incident to the use of land for agricultural purposes on lots greater
       than one acre but not greater than five acres by: setback building lines, height, and size ;
       and,
    3. Dairying and animal and poultry husbandry on lots greater than one acre but no greater
       than five acres when at least thirty-five percent of the lots in the subdivision are
       developed with at least one building, structure, or improvement that is subject to real
       property taxation or that is subject to the tax on manufactured and mobile homes. After
       thirty-five percent of the lots are so developed , dairying and animal and poultry
       husbandry shall be considered nonconforming.

Section 102 - Medical Marijuana:
The cultivation, processing or dispensing of medical marijuana is prohibited in the
unincorporated territory of Paris Township. The terms "cultivation" " processing" "dispensing"
and " medical marijuana" shall be interpreted in a manner that is consistent with the definitions
found in the Ohio Administrative Code Chapter 3796:1-1-01.

Section 109 Compliance with Regulations:
The regulations for each district set fotth by this Resolution shall be minimum regulations
and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, except as hereinafter
provided; or as otherwise granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
    1. No buildings, structure or land shall be used or occupied and no building or structure
       or patt thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally
       altered except in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the district
       in which it is located .
   2. No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this Resolution shall be reduced in
       dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots
       created after the effective date of this Resolution shall meet at least the minimum
       requirements set forth herein.

Section 110 Provisions of Resolution Declared to be the Minimum Requirements:
In their interpretation and application , the provisions of this Resolution shall be held to be
minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, and general
welfare. Whenever the requirements of this Resolution conflict with the requirements of any
other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, or resolutions, the most restrictive, or that imposing
the higher standards shall govern. Where private building restrictions in recorded deeds or
on a platted subdivision are greater than those imposed by this Resolution, they are not
replaced by the provisions of this Resolution.

Section 120 Separability Clause:
Should any section or provision of this Resolution be declared by the courts to be
unconstitutional or invalid , such decision shall not affect the validity of the Resolution as a
whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.




                                                3


Section 130 Replacement of Existing Resolution, Effective Date:
The existing Resolution shal l, upon adoption of thi s Resolution, be replaced by this
Resolution and this Resolution shall have full force and effect. This Resolution shall become
effective from and after the date of this approval and adoption, as provided by law.




                                             4


                          ARTICLE II - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Section 200 - Zoning Districts:
For the purpose of this Resolution, the following districts ,are hereby created in order that the
unincorporated area of Paris Township, Union County, Ohio, may be divided into one or
more such districts:
        U-1 - Farm / Residential District
        R-1 - Low Density Residential District
        8 -2 - Local Business District
        M-2 - Heavy Manufacturing District

Section 210 - District Regulations:
All District Regulations are found in subsequent Articles.

Section 220 - Prohibited Uses:
Any use not defined by this Resolution shall be prohibited. No specific use which is defined
by this Resolution shall be construed as being included within the definition of any other
defined use.




                                                 5


                                   ARTICLE III - ENFORCEMENT

Section 300 - Zoning permits Required:
No building, or other structure, shall be erected, moved , added to, structurall y altered, nor
shall any building, structure or land be established or changed in use without a permit
therefore, issued by the Zoning Inspector. Zoning permits shall be issued only in conform ity
with the provisions of th is Resolution unless the Zoning Inspector receives a written order
from the Board of Zoning Appeals deciding an appeal , conditional use, or variance as
provided by this Resolution.

Section 301 - Contents of Application for Zoning Permit:
The application for zoning permit shall be signed by the owner or applicant attesting to the
truth and exactness of all information supplied on the application. Each application shall
clearly state that the permit shall expire and may be revoked if work has not begun within six
months or substantial ly completed within eighteen months of issuance. At a minimum, the
application shall contain the following information:
     1. Name, address, and telephone number of the appl icant;
    2. Legal description of property;
    3. Existing use;
    4. Proposed use;
    5. Zoning district;
    6. Plans in duplicate showing the actual dimensions and the shape of the lot to be built
         upon; the exact size and location of existing buildings on the lot, if any, and the
         location and dimensions of the proposed buildings or alteration ;
    7. Building heights;
    8. Number of off-street parking spaces or loading berths;
    9. Number of dwelling units;
     10. Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with , and provide
         for the enforcement of this Resolution.
     11. Documentation of any reports and recommendations from the Soil and Water
         Conservation District, as required by other sections of the Resolution .
     12. Fees - The application for a Zoning permit must be accompanied by the appropriate
         fee required.

Section 302 - Approval of Zoning Permit:
Within ten (10) days after the receipt of an application, the Zoning Inspector shall either
approve or disapprove the application in conformance with the provisions of this Resolution.
All zoning permits shall , however, be conditional upon the commencement of work within
six months . One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the Zoning Inspector,
after the Zoning Inspector has marked such copy either as approved or disapproved and
attested to same by his signature on such copy. One copy of plans, similarly marked, shall be
retained by the Zoning Inspector. The Zoning Inspector shall issue a placard , to be posted in
a conspicuous place on the property in question, attesting to the fact that the proposed use or
alteration is in conformance with the provi sions of this Resolution.




                                               6


Section 303 - Submission to Director of Transportation:
Before any zoning permit is issued affecting any land within three hundred (300) feet of the
centerline of a proposed new highway or a highway for which changes are proposed as
described in the certification within a radius of five-hundred (500) feet from the point of
intersection of said centerline with any public road or highway, the Zoning lnspector shall
give notice, by registered mail to the Director of Transportation, that he shall not issue a
zoning permit for one-hundred twenty (120) days from the date the notice is received by the
Director of Transportation. If the Director of Transportation notifies the Zoning Inspector
that he shall proceed to acquire the land needed, then the Zoning Inspector shall refuse to
issue the zoning permit. If the Director of Transportation notifies the Zoning Inspector that
acquisition at this time is not in the public interest or upon the expiration of the one-hundred
twenty (120) day period or any extension thereof agreed upon by the Director of
Transportation and the property owner, the Zoning Inspector shall, if the application is in
conformance with all provisions of this Resolution issue the zoning permit.

Section 304 - Expiration of Zoning Permit:
If the work described in any zoning permit has not begun within six months from issuance
thereof, said permit shall expire and be deemed terminated. The zoning permit holder shall
provide the Township written notice of work commencement. The zoning permit shall be
deemed void if the zoning permit holder fails to provide written notice of work
commencement within six months of the permit's issuance, unless this provision is waived
by written acknowledgment of the Zoning Inspector, executed upon the original permit.

If the work described in any zoning permit has not been completed within eighteen months of
the issuance thereof, said permit shall expire and be deemed terminated. All work performed
pursuant to a zoning permit that expires shall cease and the property restored to the condition
existing prior to the permits issuance. If the permit holder fails to promptly restore the
property to its prior condition upon receipt of written notice, then the Township may cause
the property to be restored to its original condition and assess the costs against the real
property tax duplicate.

If the work described in any zoning permit is substantially completed, then prior to the
expiration of one year from the permit issuance, the zoning permit holder may apply for one
extension up to six months from the Zoning Inspector.

Section 310 - Certificate of Compliance:
It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any building or premises
or both, or part thereof, thereafter created, erected, changed, converted, or wholly or paitly
altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of compliance shall have been issued
therefore by the Zoning inspector stating that the proposed use of the building or land conforms
to the requirements of thi s Resolution.

Section 312 - Record of Zoning Permits and Certificates of Compliance:
The Zoning Inspector shall maintain a record of all zoning permits and ce11ificates of
compliance and copies shall be furnished upon req uest to any person.



                                                7


Section 320 - Construction and Use To Be As Provided In Applications, Plans, Permits, and
Certificates:
Zoning permits or ce1iificates of compliance issued on the basis of plans and applications
approved by the Zoning Inspector authorize only the use and arrangement, set forth in such
approved plans and applications or amendments thereto, and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Use, arrangement, or construction contrary to that authorized shall be deemed a
violation of this Resolution and punishable as provided in Section 350 of this Resolution.

Section 340 - Complaints Regarding Violations:
Whenever a v iolation of this Resolution occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person
may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall
be filed with the Zoning Inspector. The Zoning Inspector shall record properly such
complaint, immediately investigate and take action thereon as provided by this Resolution.

Section 350 - Penalties for Violation:
Violation of the provisions of this Resolution for failure to comply with any of its
requirements, including violations of conditions and safeguards established in various
sections of this Resolution shall constitute a minor misdemeanor. Any person who violates
this Resolution or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not more than five-hundred ($500.00) dollars and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Such sum may be recovered in a court of jurisdiction in the
county by the legal representative of the township, in the name of the township and for the
use thereof. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. The
owner or tenant of any building structure, premises, or part thereof, and any architect,
builder, contractor, agent, or other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or
maintains such violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the
penalties herein provided . Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Board of Township
Trustees from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.

Section 360 - Schedule of Fees, Charges, and Expenses:
The Board of Township Trustees shall by Resolution establish a schedule of fees , charges,
and expenses and a collection procedure for zoning permits, amendments, appeals, variances,
conditional use permits, plan approvals, and other matters pertaining to the administration
and enforcement of this Resolution requiring investigation , inspections, legal advertising,
postage, and other expenses. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the
Township Trustees, and may be altered or amended only by the Township Trustees . Until all
appl icable fees , charges, and expenses have been paid in full , no action shall be taken on any
application or appeal.




                                               8


                           ARTICLE IV - NON-CONFORMITIES

Section 400 - Intent:
Within the districts established by this Resolution or future amendments that may later be
adopted there exist lots, uses of land , structures, and uses of structures and land in combination
which were lawful before this Resolution was passed or amended, but which would be
prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this Resolution or future amendments . It is
the intent of this Resolution to permit these non -conformities to continue until they are removed
or discontinued. It is further the intent of this Resolution that non- conformities shall not be
enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses
prohibited elsewhere in the same district.

Section 410 - Incompatibility of Non-Conformities:
Non-conformities are declared by this Resolution to be incompatible with permitted uses in the
districts in which such use is located. A non-conforming use of land, or a non- conforming use
of a structure and land in combination shall not be extended or enlarged after passage of this
Resolution. The addition of other uses of a nature which would be generally prohibited in the
district in which such use is located are likewise prohibited.

Section 420 - Avoidance of Undue Hardship:
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this Resolution shall be deemed to require a change in the
plans, construction, or designated use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully
begun and diligently carried on prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
Resolution. Actual construction is hereby defined to include the placing of construction
materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent manner. Where demolition or
removal of an existing building has been substantially begun and diligently carried out
preparatory to rebuilding, such demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction.

Section 430- Single Non-Conforming Lots of Record_;_
In any district in which single family dwellings are permitted , a single-family dwelling and
customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot ofrecord at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this Resolution. Such lot must be in separate ownership and may
not be of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership. This provision shall apply
even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally
applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensio ns and requirements other than these
applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in
which such lot is located . Variance of ya rd requirements shall be obtained only through action of
the Board of Zoning Appeals .

Section 431 - Non-Conforming Lots of Record in Combination:
If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage in single
ownership are of record at the time of passage or amendment of this Resolution and if all or part
of the lots do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved
shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this Resolution and no portion
of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width and
area requirements established by this Resolution, nor shall any division of any parcel be made


                                               9


which creates a lot with width or area below the requirements stated in this Resolution.

Section 440 -Non-Conforming Uses of Land:
Where at the time of passage of this Resolution lawful use of land exists which would not be
permitted by the regulations imposed by this Resolution, the use may be continued so long as it
remains otherwise lawful , provided:
   1. No such non-conforming use shall be enlarged, increased nor extended to occupy a
       greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment of
       this Resolution.
   2. No such non-conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any portion of the lot
       or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the effective date of adoption or
       amendment of this Resolution.
   3. If any such non -conforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period of more than 2
       years (except when government action impedes access to the premises), any subsequent
       use of such land shall conform to the regulations specified by this Resolution for the
       district in which such land is located ;
   4. No additional structures not conforming to the requirements of this Resolution shall be
       erected in connection with such non-conforming use of land.

Section 450 - Non-Conforming Structures:
Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Resolution
that could not be built under the terms of this Resolution by reason of restrictions on area, lot
coverage, height, bulk, yards, its location on the lot, or other requirements concerning the
structure, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions:
    1. No such non-conforming structure may be enlarged or altered in any way which increases
        its non-conformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be altered to decrease its
        non-conformity, except when authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance
        with this Zoning Resolution.
    2. Should such non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion of structure be
        destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50 percent of its reproduction value at
        time of damage then such non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion shall not
        be restored except in conformity with the provisions of the regulations of the zoning
        district in which it is located - unless it is approved to be reconstructed as it previously
        existed by the Board of Zoning Appeals within 6 months of the time of destruction upon
        presentment of extraordinary circumstances to the Board of Zoning Appeals. All
        remaining debris shall be cleared-away and disposed of properly within 2 months of the
        time of destruction.
    3. Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance whatever, it shall
        thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located after it is
        moved.

Section 460 - Non-Conforming Uses of Structures or of Structures and Premises in
Combination:
If lawful use involving individual structures, or of structure and premises in combination, exists
at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Resolution that would not be allowed in
the district under the terms of this Resolution the lawful use may be continued so long as it

                                               10


remains otherwise lawful , subject to the following pro visions:
   1. No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this Resolution in the district in
       which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or
       structurally altered except in changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the
       distr ict in which it is located ;
   2. Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building which were
       manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of adoption or amendment of
       this Resolution, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside such
       building;
   3. If no structural alterations are made, any non -conforming use of a structure, or structure
       and premises, may be changed to another non-conforming use provided that the Board of
       Zoning Appeals, by making findings in the specific case, finds that the proposed use is
       equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing non- conforming
       use. In permitting such change, the Board of Zoning Appeals may require appropriate
       conditions and safeguards in accord with the provisions of this Resolution ;
   4. Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a non- conforming
       use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the regu lations for the
       district, and the non-conforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
   5. When a non-conforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in combination, is
       discontinued or abandoned for 2 years (except when government action impedes access
       to the premises), the structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not
       thereafter be used except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is
       located.
   6. Where non-conforming use status applies to a structure and premises in combination,
       removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the non-conforming status of the
       land, except as stated in Section 450, paragraph 2.

Section 470 - Repairs and Maintenance:
On any non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing a non -conforming use,
wo rk may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or
replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures , wiring, or plumbing, provided that the cubic content
existing when it became non-conforming shall not be increased. If a non-conforming structure or
portion of a structure containing a non-conforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful
due to lack of repairs and maintenance, and is declared by any duly authorized official to be
unsafe or unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be restored, repaired, or
rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the Zoning district in which it is located .
Nothing in this Resolution shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe
condition of any building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged with
protecting the public safety , upon order of such official.




                                               11


                             ARTICLE V - ADMINISTRATION

Section 500 Office of Zoning Inspector Created:
A Zoning Inspector designated by the Board of Township Trustees shall administer and enforce
this Resolution. The zoning inspector may be provided with the assistance of such other persons
as the Trustees may direct.

Section 501 Duties of the Zoning Inspector:
For the purpose of this Resolution , the zoning Inspector shall have the following duties:
    I. Upon finding that any of the provisions of this Resolution are being violated, he shall
        notify in writing the person responsible for such violations, ordering the action necessary
        to correct such violation;
   2. order discontinuance of illegal uses of land , buildings, or structures;
    3. order removal of illegal buildings, structures, additions, or structural alterations;
    4. order discontinuance of any illegal work being done;
    5. Take any other action authorized by this Resolution to ensure compliance with or to
        prevent violations of this Resolution. This may include the issuance of and action on
        zoning permits and certificates of compliance permits and such similar administrative
        duties as are permissible under the law.

Section 510 Zoning Commission:
The Zoning Commission shall exist and comply with Ohio Revised Code Section 519.04

Section 511 Proceedings of Zoning Commission:
The Commission shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its affairs in keeping with the
provisions of this Resolution. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other
times as the Commission may determine. All meetings shall be open to the public. The
Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each
question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions all of which shall be a public record and be immediately
filed in the office of the Commission.

Section 512 Duties of Zoning Commission:
For the purpose of this Resolution the Commission shall have the following duties:
    I. Initiate proposed amendments to this Resolution ;
    2. Review all proposed amendments to this Resolution;

Section 520 The Board of Zoning Appeals:
The Board of Zoning appeals shall exist and Comply with Ohio Revised Code Section 519.13.

Section 521 Proceedings of the Board of Zoning Appeals:
The Board shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its affairs in keeping with the provisions
of this Resolution. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as
the Board may determine. The chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall be open to the public. The
Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each


                                               12


question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be a public record and be immediately
filed in the office of the Board.

Section 522 Duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals:
In exercising its duties, the Board may, as long as such action is in conformity with the terms of
this Resolution, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly , or modify the order, requirement, decisions,
or determination appealed from and make such order, requirement, decisions, or determination as
ought to be made, and to that end shall have the powers of the Zoning Inspector from whom the
appeal is taken. The concurring vote of three (3) members of the Board shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decisions, or determination of the Zoning Inspector, or to decide
in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this Resolution or
to effect any variation in the application of the Resolution. For the purpose of this Resolution the
Board has the following specific responsibilities:
     1. to hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement,
        decision, interpretation, or determination, made by the Zoning Inspector;
    2. to authorize such variances from the terms of this Resolution as will not be contrary to
        the public interest, where, owing to the special conditions, a literal enforcement of this
        Resolution will result in unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of this Resolution
        shall be observed and substantial justice done;
    3. to grant conditional use permits as specified in Article 5 of this Resolution and under
        such additional conditions and safeguards as will uphold the intent of this Resolution; and
    4. for all such additional powers as specified in Ohio Revised Code § 519.14, as
        amended.

Section 530 Duties of Zoning Inspector, Board of Zoning Appeals, Legislative Authority
and Courts on Matters of Appeal:
It is the intent of this Resolution that all questions of interpretation and enforcement shall be first
presented to the Zoning Inspector, and that such questions shall be presented to the Board of
Zoning Appeals only on appeal from the decision of the Zoning Inspector, and that recourse from
the decisions of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be to the courts as provided by law. It is
further the intent of this Resolution that the duties of the Township Trustees in connection with
this Resolution shall not include hearing and deciding questions of interpretation and
enforcement that may arise. The procedure for deciding such questions shall be as stated in this
section and this Resolution. Under this Resolution the Township Trustees shall have only the
duties of considering and adopting or rejecting proposed amendments or the repeal of this
Resolution as provided by law; and of establishing a schedule of fees and charges as stated in
Section 360 of this Resolution. Nothing in this Resolution shall be interpreted to prevent any
official of the Township from appealing a decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals to the cow1s
as provided in the Ohio Revised Code. Any appeal shall be taken within the time permitted by
state statute.

Section 540 Procedure and Requirements for Appeals and Variances:
Appeals and variances shall conform to the procedures and requirements of Section 541-549,
included , of this Resolution . The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have appellate jurisdiction
relative to appeals and variances as specified in Section 522.


                                                13


Section 541 Appeals:
Appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals concerning interpretation or administration of this
Resolution may be filed by any person aggrieved or by any officer or bureau of the legislative
authority of the Township affected by any decision of the Zoning Inspector. Such appeal shall be
filed within twenty (20) days after the decision by filing , with the Zoning Inspector and with the
Board of Zoning Appeals, all necessary forms , documents and electronic communication
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.

Section 542 Stay of Proceedings:
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from , unless the Zoning
Inspector from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Zoning Appeals after the notice
of appeal is filed with the Zoning Inspector that a stay would cause imminent peril to life or
property.

Section 543 Variances:
The Board of Zoning Appeals may authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from
the terms of this Resolution as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special
conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this Resolution would result in unnecessary
hardship. No non-conforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or buildings in the same
district and no permitted or non-conforming use of lands, structures, or buildings in other
districts shall be considered grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances shall not be granted
on the grounds of convenience or profit, but only where strict application of the provisions of this
Resolution would result in unnecessary hardship.

Section 544 Application and Standards for Variances:
A variance from the terms of this Resolution shall not be granted by the Board of Zoning
Appeals unless and until a written application for a variance is submitted to the Zoning Inspector
and the Chairman of the Board of Zoning Appeals containing:
    1. Name, address, and telephone number of applicants;
   2. Legal description of property ;
   3. Description or nature of variance requested ;
   4. A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance conforms to the
       following standards ;
           a. That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to the land,
              structure, or building involved and which are not applicable to other lands,
              structures, or buildings, in the same district;
           b. That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this Resolution would deprive the
              applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same district
              under the terms of this Resolution ;
           c. That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the actions of the
              applicant;
           d. That granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant any special
              privilege that is denied by this Resolution to other lands , structures, or buildings
              in the same district.
   5. Names and addresses of all parti es in interest, as described in Section 548.


                                               14


A variance shall not be granted unless the Board makes specific findings of fact based directly on
the particular evidence presented to it, which support conclusions that the standards and
conditions imposed by subsection 4 of this section have been met by the applicant.

Section 545 Supplementary Conditions and Safeguards:
Under no circumstances shall the Board of Zoning Appeals grant an appeal or variance to allow a
use not permissible under the terms of this Resolution in the District involved, or any use
expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this Resolution in said district. In granting
any appeal or variance, the Board of Zoning Appeals may prescribe appropriate conditions
and safeguards as a part of the terms under which the appeal or variance is granted.

Section 546 Public Hearing by the Board of Zoning Appeals:
The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a public hearing within a reasonable time after the
receipt of an application for an appeal or variance from the Zoning Inspector or an applicant.

Section 547 Notice of Public Hearing:
Before holding the public hearing required in Section 546, notice of such hearing shall be given
at least ten (10) days before the date of said hearing in accordance with ORC 519.15 as amended.
The notice shall set forth the date, time, and location of the public hearing, and the nature of the
proposed appeal or variance.

Section 548 Notice to Parties in Interest:
Before holding the public hearing required in Section 546, written notice of such hearing shall be
mailed by the Chairman of the Board of Zoning Appeals or such other entity as the Chairman
may designate, by first class mail, at least ten (10) days before the day of the hearing to all
parties in interest. Parties in interest shall include, but not be limited to, property owners
contiguous to and directly across the road (street) from the property concerned. The notice shall
contain the same information as required of notices as specified in Section 547.

Section 549 Action by Board of Zoning Appeals: Within a reasonable time after the public
hearing required in Section 54 7, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall, in writing either approve,
approve with supplementary conditions as specified in Section 545 , or disapprove the request for
appeal or variance. If approved, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall further make a finding that
the reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance that will make possible
a reasonable use of the land, building, or structure. Appeals from Board decisions shall be made
in the manner specified in Section 530.

Section 560 Procedure and Requirements for Approval of Conditional Use Permits:
Conditional uses shall conform to the procedures and requirements of Section 561 -568 inclusive,
of this Resolution.

Section 561 General:
It is recognized that an increasing number of new kinds of uses are appearing daily, and that
many of these and some other more conventional uses possess characteristics of such unique and
special nature relative to location, design, size and method of operation, circulation , and public
facilities that each specific use must be considered individually. These specific uses as they are


                                                15


conditionally permitted shall follow the procedures and requirements set forth in Section 562-
568, inclusive.

Section 562 Contents of Application for Conditional Use Permit:
A written application for a conditional use permit shall be submitted to the Zoning Inspector and
the Chairman of the Board of Zoning Appeals by at least one owner and if the prope1iy is to be
leased, by the putative lessee, of property for which such conditional use is proposed. At a
minimum the application shall contain the following information:
    1. Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant(s);
    2. Legal description of property;
    3. Description of existing use;
    4. Zoning District;
    5. Description of proposed conditional use;
    6. A plan of the proposed site for the conditional use showing the location of all buildings,
        parking and loading areas, driveways, traffic access and traffic circulation, open spaces,
        landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities, signs, yards, and such other information as
        the Board may require determining if the proposed conditional use meets the intent and
        requirements of this Resolution.
    7. A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining property; the effect of such
        elements as noise, odor and fumes on adjoining property; a discussion of the general
        compatibility with adjacent and other properties in the district.
    8. Names and addresses of all patties in interest, as described in Section 548.

Section 563 General Standards Applicable to all Conditional Uses:
The Board shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each proposed use in terms of
the following standards and shall find adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed
location:
Is in fact a conditional use as established under the provisions of the appropriate district for
which the use is being requested;
     I. Will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so as to be harmonious and
         appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the general vicinity
         and that such use wi 11 not change the essential character of the same area;
     2. Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring uses;
     3. Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services such as highways,
         streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures, refuse disposal, water and
     4. sewer; or that the persons or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed
         use shall be able to provide adequately any such services;
     5. Will not create excessive additional requirements at public costs for public facilities
         and services and will not be detrimental to the economic welfare of the comm unity ;
     6. Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and conditions of
         operation that will be detrimental to property, or the general welfare by reason of
         excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke, fumes , or odors;
     7. Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shal l be so designed as not to
         create an interference with traffic on surroundi ng public thoroughfares.
     8. No permit shall be issued for a conditional use for a property where th ere is an existing
         vio lation of this Resolution.


                                               16


Section 564 General Conditions Applicable to All Conditional Uses:
The Zoning Inspector can review a conditional use at any time. The Board of Zoning Appeals
may modify a current Conditional Use Permit to account for changes in the activity granted
under the Conditional Use Permit. This modification may occur as a consequence of the Zoning
Inspector' s review or at the request of the entity holding the Conditional Use Permit.

Section 565 Supplementary Conditions and Safeguards:
In granting any conditional use, the Board may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards
in conformity with this Resolution . Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a
part of the terms under which the conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
Resolution and punishable under Section 350 of this Resolution.

Section 566 Procedure for Hearing, Notice:
Upon filing of the application for a Conditional Use Permit as specified in Section 562, the
Board shall give written notice to all parties in interest, publish notice, and hold a public hearing,
all according to the procedures specified in Section 546 through 548.

Section 567 Action by the Board of Zoning Appeals:
Within a reasonable time after the public hearing required in Section 566, the Board shall in
writing either approve, approve with supplementary conditions as specified in Section 565, or
disapprove the application as presented. If the application is approved or approved with
modifications, the Board shall direct the Zoning Inspector to issue a conditional use permit
listing the specific conditions specified by the Board for approval. If the application is
disapproved by the Board, the applicant may seek relief through the Court of Common Pleas.
Appeals from Board decisions shall be made in the manner specified in Section 530.

Section 568 Expiration of Conditional Use Permit:
A conditional use permit shall be deemed to authorize only one particular conditional use and
said permit shall automatically expire if, for any reason, the conditional use shall cease for more
than one (1) year.

Section 569 Filing Effective and Permit Effective:
Any application for variance filed pursuant to§ 544 of this Resolution or any application for
conditional use filed pursuant to§ 562 of this resolution shall not be deemed filed until such time
as the appropriate fee is paid to the Township Clerk and the application is received and time
stamped by the Zoning Inspector. Any permit granted by the Zoning Inspector or any permit or
variance granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall not be deemed effective until such time
as the document is executed by the Zoning Inspector or in the case of an action taken by the
Board of Zoning Appeals, executed by each member of the Board of Zoning Appeals involved in
the decision, and such document is time stamped as having been officially received by the
Township Clerk.

Section 570 Procedure for Amendment or District Changes:
This Resolution may be amended utilizing the procedures specified in ORC 519.12 as amended
from time to time.


                                                17


Section 571 General:
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good zoning practices require,
the Board of Township Trustees may by Resolution, after receipt of recommendation thereon
from the Zoning Commission, and subject to procedures provided by law, amend, supplement,
change or repeal the regulations, restrictions, and boundaries or classification of property.

Section 572 Initiation of Zoning Amendments:
Amendments to this Resolution may be initiated
in one of the following ways:
    1. By adoption of a motion by the Zoning Commission;
    2. By the passage of a resolution by the Township Trustees ; or,
    3. By the filing of an application by one or more of the owners or lessees of property within
        the area proposed to be changed or affected by the proposed amendment with the
        township zoning commission.

Section 573 Contents of Application:
Applications for amendments to the Official Zoning Map adopted as part of this Resolution shall
contain at least the following information:
    1. Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
   2. Present use;
   3. Present zoning district;
   4. Proposed use;
   5. Proposed zoning district;
   6. A description of the proposed provisions for water, sanitary sewer and surface drainage
        with engineering feasibility studies or other ev idence of reasonableness;
   7. Site plan showing property lines, existing and proposed future buildings including the
        building footprint. Setbacks should be clearly marked;
   8. A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Zoning Inspector showing prope1iy lines,
        thoroughfares, existing and proposed zoning and such other items as the Zoning Inspector
        may require;
   9. A list of all property owners and their addresses who are within, contiguous to and
        directly across the road (street) from the parcel(s) proposed to be rezoned and others that
        may have a substantial interest in the case, except that addresses need not be included
        where more than ten (I 0) parcels are to be rezoned;
    10. A fee as established by the Township Trustees.

Section 574 Transmittal to Zoning Commission:
Immediately after the adoption of a resolution by the Township Trustees or the filing of an
application by at least one (1) owner or lessee of property, said resolution or application shall be
transmitted to the Zoning Commission. The Zoning Commission shall comply with all the
requirements of Chapter 519 .12 of the Ohio Revised Code, as amended.

Section 575 Involvement of the Regional Planning Commission:
Within five (5) days after the adoption of the motion by the Township Zoning Commission,
certification of the resolution by the Township Trustees to the Zoning Commission, or filing of


                                               18


an application by one or more of the owners or lessees of property within the area proposed to be
changed or affected by the proposed amendment with the township zoning commission, all as
described in Section 572 of this resolution , the township zoning commission shall transmit a
copy of it together with text and map pertaining to it to the county or regional planning
commission. The county or regional planning commission shall recommend the approval or
denial of the proposed amendment or the approval of some modification of it. The
recommendation shall be considered at the public hearing held by the Township Zoning
Commission on the proposed amendment.

Section 576 Submission to Director of Transportation:
Before any zoning amendment is approved affecting any land within three hundred (300) feet of
the centerline of a proposed new highway or highway for which changes are proposed as
described in the certification to local officials by the Director of Transportation, or within a
radius of five hundred (500) feet from the point of intersection or said centerline with any public
road of highway, the Commission shall give notice, by registered mail or certified mail to the
Director of Transportation. The Commission may proceed as required by law, however, the
township trustees shall not approve the amendment for one hundred twenty (120) days from the
date the notice is received by the Director of Transportation. If the Director of Transportation
notifies the trustees that acquisition at this time is not in the public interest or upon the expiration
of the one hundred twenty (120) day period or any extension thereof agreed upon by the Director
of Transportation and the property owner, the trustees shall proceed as required by law.

Section 582 Official Zoning Map:
The districts estab li shed in Section 200 of this Resolution as shown on the Official Zoning Map
which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, are hereby adopted as part of this Resolution.

Section 583 Identification of the Official Zoning Map:
The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the chairman of the Board of
Township Trustees and attested to by the Clerk.

Section 584 Interpretation of District Boundaries:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the zoning districts as shown on
the Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
    1. Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
        thoroughfares or highways, street lines, or highway right-of-way lines, such centerlines,
        street lines, or highway right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries ;
    2. Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately follow the lot lines,
        such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries ;
    3. Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately parallel to the
        centerlines or street lines of streets, or the centerlines or right-of-way lines of highways,
        such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance
        therefrom as indicated on the Official Zoning Map. If no distance is given, such
        dimensions shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the Zoning Map.




                                                 19


                   ARTICLE VI - U-1 FARM/RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Section 610 - U-1 Farm/ Residential District Purpose:
The purpose of this district is to provide land which is suitable or used for agriculture,
conservation, very low density residential , public and quasi-public uses, permit construction of
low density single family residences and permit other non-urban types of residential and
agricultural activities so that the basically rural character of these areas may be preserved and
maintained. Very low density residential land use refers to fa1m housing units and isolated
residential developments not requiring a major plat under the County's Subdivision Regulations.
In addition , the development of these lands shall be in accordance with the ability of the land to
support development without central sewerage disposal and / or central water facilities, to
prevent pollution of such lands and aquifers by excessive development, and to protect the aquifer
recharge areas.

Section 611 - U-1 Farm/ Residential District Permitted Uses:
The following uses as defined in this Resolution, developed in accordance with all other
provisions of this Resolution, shall be permitted:
   a. Agricultural uses as defined by the Ohio Revised Code in§ 519.01 , including:
           i. Stables and indoor and outdoor arenas;
           ii. Wholesale and retail Tree & Plant nurseries;
           iii. Farm markets provided that at least fifty (50%) percent of the gross income from
                the market is derived from sale of produce raised on farms owned and operated by
                the market operator in a normal crop year, and adequate area exists adjacent
                thereto for parking so as not to interfere with traffic on adjacent thoroughfares.
                All permanent farm market structures must conform to the standards set forth in
                this Resolution.
           1v. Facilities for the storage, sorting, preliminary processing or sale of agricultural
                products shall be permitted if such products are used in the production of other
                farm products, and if said storage, processing, sorting or sales is carried on
                incident to other farming operations by the owner/proprietor.
   b. Projects designed for watershed protection , conservation of soil or water, or for flood
       control
   c. Single family dwellings
   d. Child day care provided in home for six (6) or fewer children who are not members of the
        immediate resident family, provided the day care is accessory to the use of the dwelling
       as the provider's residence and fui1her provided that such day care qualifies as a Type B
       family day care home as defined in Ohio Revised Code Section 5104.01 .
   e. Accessory buildings and accessory uses including swimming pools and private garages
       provided they meet the standards outlined in this Resolution.




                                              20


Section 612 - U-1 Farm/ Residential Conditional Uses:
No conditional use shall be implemented without a conditional use permit approved by the Board
of Zoning Appeals, issued by the Zoning Inspector or as otherwise provided by Ohio Revised
Code§ 519.14.
    a. Agritourism
    b. Home occupations as outlined in Definitions Article of this Resolution;
           i. Commercial recreation (Examples Hunting clubs / Campgrounds)
           ii. Recreational camping guest stays are limited to no longer than fourteen (14)
                  consecutive days;
    c. the use must be approved by the Union County Health Department and comply with all
       health and sanitary regulations of the State of Ohio and Union County Health
       Departments.
    d. Non-commercial recreation;
    e. Veterinary Service or Boarding Kennels, provided that the building or structure dedicated
       to the use is located at least two hundred (200) feet from any lot line and is subject to the
       following conditions:
            1.    No building or structure used for the purpose of an animal shelter shall be located
                  closer than four hundred (400) feet from the lot Iine of any residence, church,
                  school, or any institution of human care.
            11. Suitable fencing and/or screening shall be provided as approved by the Paris
                  Township Board of Zoning Appeals .
            iii. The minimum lot size is five (5) acres.
            iv. Outside runs are not within 400 feet of adjoining properties;
    f. Cemeteries provided the following standards are met:
            1. Interment shall not be within 300' of a dwelling house, unless the owner of such
                  dwelling house gives consent, or unless the entire tract appropriated is a necessary
                  addition to or enlargement of a cemetery already in use, as further provided in
                  ORC 1721.03.
            ii. A mausoleum shall not be within 300' of any property line.
            iii . A crematory or other structure shall not be within 1000 ' of any property line.
            1v. Every cemetery company or association shall cause a plat of its grounds and of the
                  lots laid out by it to be made and recorded or filed in the offices of the county
                  recorder in accordance with ORC 1721.09;
    g. Bed and Breakfast Operations
            1. The Bed and Breakfast must be owner-operated; it must be the principal residence
                  of the owner, and occupied by the owner, unless authorized differently as a
                  conditional use by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
            11. One (I) individual not residing in the Bed and Breakfast may be employed in its
                  operation.
            iii. No more than four (4) rooms shall be offered for rent. The Board of Zoning
                  Appeals may permit more rooms in Residential Zoning Districts which permit
                  multi-family dwellings.
            1v. Each room rented shall contain a minimum of one-hundred (100) square feet. No
                  rented room shall have independent outside entrance (emergency fire exits are
                  permitted).
            v. Neither any rented room nor the owner's dwelling space shall be located in an


                                                21


                accessory structure, unless authorized differently as a conditional use by the Board
                of Zoning Appeals.
           vi. No cooking facilities of any type shall be permitted in the rented rooms.
           vii. A minimum of one (I) on-site parking space per room offered for rent, and two
                (2) spaces for the owners shall be required .
          viii. No changes to the outside appearance of the dwelling shall occur as a result of the
                operation of the bed and breakfast faci Iity.
            1x. One (1) sign not exceeding four (4) square feet in area shall be permitted
                identifying the dwelling as a Bed and Breakfast.
           x. Comply with all state and governmental requirements.
           x1. The owner shall notify the Zoning Inspector in writing of his intentions to use the
                structure in this manner each year.
           xii. Subject to Health Department and Fire Department inspection and approval;
          xiii. Any other condition or safeguard deemed appropriate by the Board of Zoning
                Appeals.
   h. Conservation subdivisions as defined in this Resolution.
   1. Public service facilities as defined in Definitions of this Resolution.
   J. Public and Quasi-public uses as defined in Definitions of this Resolution.
   k. Service business as defined in Definitions of this Resolution.
    I. Convenience type retail business as defined in Definitions of this Resolution.
   m. Personal services business as defined in Definitions of this Resolution.
   n. Offices as defined in Definitions of this Resolution .
   o. Wholesale and warehousing as defined in Definitions of this Resolution.
   p. Essential services as defined in Definitions of this Resolution.
   q. Light manufacturing uses as defined in Definitions of this Resolution.
   r. Nursing home as defined in Definitions of this Resolution.
   s. Shopping type retail business as defined in Definitions of this Resolution.
   t. Private airstrips for landing private small aircraft subject to the Noise Regulations article
       in this Resolution and current regulation of the Federal Aviation Ad ministration.
   u. Manufactured home parks.
   v. Principal So lar Energy Production Facilities

Section 613 - U-1 Farm / Residential District Development Standards:
The use of land and structures within this district shall conform to the standards contained in
sections 610 to 623.

Section 614 - U-1 Farm/ Residential District Minimum Lot Area:
Minimum lot size shall be one and one-half (1 ½) acres except for conservation subdivis ions
where minimum lot area is as approved .

Section 615 - U-1 Farm/ Residential District Minimum Lot Width and Frontage:
      i. State highways: 150 feet;
     ii. Major collector: 150 feet;
    iii. Minor collector: 150 feet;
    iv. Local road: 150 feet;



                                               22


Section 616 - U-1 Farm/ Residential District Minimum Yard Setbacks:
      i. Front(depth): Fifty (50) feet as measured from the road right of way
     ii. Rear (depth) : Thirty (30) feet as measured from the rear lot line. No accessory use or
         building shall be located closer than ten ( I 0) feet to the rear lot line.
    iii. Side (width): Twenty (20) feet on each side as measured from the side lot line. No
         accessory use or building shall be located closer than fifteen (15) feet to the side lot line.

Section 617 - U-1 Farm/ Residential District Maximum Building Height:
The maximum building height for non farm structures is Thirty-five (35) feet. The maximum
building height for non-farm accessory structures is twenty (20) feet.

Section 618- U-1 Farm/ Residential District Minimum Living Space Requirements:
For any residential dwelling unit (exclusive of the porch, basement and garage) - 1,400 square
feet.

Section 619- U-1 Farm/ Residential District Maximum Lot Coverage:
Ground floor area - Twenty-fi ve (25) percent

Section 620- U-1 Farm/ Residential District Required Lot Ratios:
   a. Depth:
          Maximum: 3: I depth to width ratio
         Minimum: Depth may not be less than I 00% of required lot frontage
   b. Width - minimum of I 00% of lot frontage

Section 621 - U-1 Farm/ Residential District Screening and/or Landscaping:
Landscaping shall be in compliance with the provisions of Article XIII.

Section 622 - U-1 Farm/ Residential District Off-street Parking and Loading:
Off-street parking and loading shall be in compl iance with the provisions of Artic le XI.

Section 623 - U-1 Farm/ Residential District Signs:
Signs shall be in compliance with the provisions of Article XIV.




                                                23


             ARTICLE VII - R-1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Section 710- R-1 Low Density Residential District Purpose:
The purpose of the Low Density Residential District (R-1) is to provide land for low density
development not to exceed 3 dwelling units per acre with a central sewage system. The majority
of land in the Low Density Residential District does not have access to central water and
wastewater service; therefore, development shall be in accordance with the ability of the land to
wells and septic systems.

Section 711 - R-1 Low Density Residential District Permitted Uses:
The following uses, developed in accordance with all other provisions of this Resolution, shall be
permitted:
   a. Single family dwellings
   b. Projects designed for watershed protection, conservation of soi I or water, or for flood
       control
   c. Public uses as defined in this Resolution
   d. Child day care provided in home for six (6) or fewer children who are not members of the
        immediate resident family , provided the day care is accessory to the use of the dwelling
       as the provider's residence and further provided that such day care qualifies as a Type B
       family day care home as defined in Ohio Revised Code Section 5104.01.
   e. Accessory buildings and accessory uses including swimming pools and private garages
       provided they meet the standards outlined in this Resolution.
   f. Accessory uses are limited to one accessory building or use, which may be in addition to
       a swimming pool , however, prohibits the parking of commercial tractors, commercial
       trucks or trailers.

Section 712 - R-1 Low Density Residential District Conditional Uses:
No conditional use shall be implemented until a conditional use permit is approved by the Board
of Zoning Appeals and then issued by the Zoning Inspector or as otherwise provided by Ohio
Revised Code§ 519.14 .
    a. Agritourism
    b. Home occupations as defined in this Resolution
    c. Non-commercial or Commercial recreation
    d. Public service facilities as defined in this Resolution
    e. Quasi-public uses as defined in this Reso lution
    f. Group homes or Residential Care Facilities
    g. Roadside sales of agriculturally grown products shall be a conditioned use in this district
       provided that at least fifty percent of the gross income from the market is derived from
       sale of produce raised on farms owned or operated by the market operator, and adequate
       area exists adjacent thereto for parking so as not to interfere with traffic on adjacent
       thoroughfares. No permanent buildings or structures shall be placed without permission
       of the Board of Zoning Appeals and issuance of a Conditional Use Permit.
    h. Essential services, personal services and service business as defined in this Resolution.
    1. Multi-family dwelling.
    J. Nursing home.
    k. Personal serv ices.


                                              24


    I.   Service business.

Section 713 - R-1 Low Density Residential District Development Standards:
The use of land and structures within this district shall conform to the standards contained in
sections 710 - 723.

Section 714 - R-1 Low Density Residential District Minimum Lot Area:
The minimum lot size shall be:
Public water and sewer not available: 65,340 square feet; Public water and sewer available:
21,780 square feet.

Section 715 - R-1 Low Density Residential District- Minimum Lot Width and Frontage:
   i. Lots with public water and sewer not available: 150 feet frontage
  ii. Lots with public water and sewer available: 125 feet frontage

The widths of all lots shall conform to the lot measurement - lot width limitations reflected in the
definitions of this resolution.

Section 716 - R-1 Low Density Residential District Minimum Yard Setbacks:
No principal building or accessory building shall be located nearer than the distances established
herein:
   1. Lots with public water and sewer not available : 50 feet as measured from the road right of
      way
  11. Lots with public water and sewer available: 35 feet as measured from the road right of way
 111. Rear (depth): Thirty (30) feet as measured from the rear lot line for principal buildings. No
      accessory use or building shall be located closer than ten (10) feet to the rear lot line.
 1v. Side (width): Principal Building: Twenty (20) feet on each side as measured from the side
      lot line. No accessory use or building shall be located closer than fifteen (15) feet to the side
      lot line .

Section 717 - R-1 Low Density Residential District Maximum Building Height:
For any non-farm structure - Thirty-five (35) feet. For any non-farm accessory structure -
Twenty (20) feet.

Section 718-R-1 Low Density Residential District Minimum Living Space Requirements:
For any residential dwelling unit (exc lusive of the porch, basement and garage) - 1,400 square
feet

Section 719 -R-1 Low Density Residential District Maximum Lot Coverage:
Ground floor area - Twenty-five percent (25%)

Section 720 - R-1 Low Density Residential District Required Lot Ratios:
    a. Depth:
         Maximum: 3:1 depth to width ratio
         Minimum: Depth may not be less than I 00% of required lot frontage
    b. Width - minimum of 100% of lot frontage


                                                25


Section 721 - R-1 Low Density Residential District Screening and/or Landscaping:
Landscaping shall be in compliance with the provisions of Article XIII.

Section 722 - R-1 Low Density Residential District Off-street Parking and Loading:
Off-street parking and loading shall be in compliance with the provisions of Article XI.

Section 723 - R-1 Low Density Residential District Signs
Signs shall be in compliance with the provisions of Article XIV.




                                              26


                    ARTICLE VIII - B-2 LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICT

Section 810 - B-2 Local Business District Purpose:
The purpose of the local business district is to provide land for retail and personal service
establishments offering convenience-type goods and services for the daily needs of the people.
Shopping-type retail facilities are also permitted within this district.

Section 811 - B-2 Local Business District Permitted Uses:
The fo llowing uses as defined in this Resolution, developed in accordance with all other
provisions of this Resolution, shall be permitted :
   a. Accessory buildings and accessory uses including swimming pools and private garages
        provided they meet the standards outlined in this Resolution. Accessory buildings and
        accessory uses supporting a conditional use shall follow the application process for
        conditional uses in the B-2 District.
   b. Convenience and shopping type retail
   c. Craft and gift shop
   d. Nursery (Greenhouse) tree & plant
   e. Offices
   f. Personal services
   g. Public and quasi -public uses
   h. Single family dwellings (refer to R-1 District regulations)

Section 812 - B-2 Local Business District Conditional Uses:
No conditional use shall be implemented until a conditional use permit is approved by the Board
of Zoning Appeals and then issued by the Zoning Inspector or as otherwise provided by Ohio
Revised Code§ 519.14.
    a. Agritourism
    b. Bed & Breakfast
    c. Non-commercial or Commercial recreation
    d. Drive-in business, including any drive-thru establ ishment that sells wine, beer or alcohol
    e. Eating and drinking establishments
    f. Essential services
    g. Light manufacturing
    h. Multi-family dwelling (refer to R-1 District regulations)
    1. Nursing home
    J. Principal Solar Energy Production Facilities
    k. Public Service facility
    I. Service Business
    m. Service Station
Storage facility
Section 813 - B-2 Local Business District Development Standards:
The use of land and structures within this district shall conform to the standards contained in
sections 814 - 820.

Section 814 - B-2 Local Business District Minimum Lot Area:
No minimum lot size required. However, lot size shall be adequate to provide the minimum lot


                                               27


width, setback requirements, building size, parking requirements, maximum height and
percentage of lot coverage requirements reflected in sections 815 - 820.

Section 815 - B-2 Local Business District- Minimum Lot Width and Frontage:
  i. Lots with public water and sewer not available: 150 feet frontage
 ii. Lots with public water and sewer available : I 00 feet frontage

The w idths of a ll lots shall conform to the lot measurement - lot width limitations reflected in the
definitions of this resolution.

Section 816 - B-2 Local Business District Minimum Yard Setbacks:
No principal building or accessory building shall be located nearer than the distances established
herein:
   1. Lots with public water and sewer not available: 30 feet as measured from the road right of
      way
  11. Lots with public water and sewer available: 30 feet as measured from the road right of way
 111. Side yards: A side yard setback of 15 feet shall be required.
 1v. Rear yard setback: A rear yard setback of thirty (30) feet shall be required.

Section 817 - B-2 Local Business District Maximum Building Height:
Thirty-five (35) feet for principal buildings. Twenty (20) feet for accessory buildings.

Section 818 - B-2 Local Business District Maximum Lot Coverage:
  i. Principal and accessory Buildings - Fifty (50) percent
 ii. Buildings plus parking and loading areas - Seventy-fi ve (75) percent

Section 819 - B-2 Local Business District Screening and/or Landscaping:
Landscaping shall be in compliance with the provisions of Article XIII.

Section 820 - B-2 Local Business District Parking:
Parking requirements shall be in compliance with the provisions of Article X I of this regulation.

Section 821 - B-2 Local Business District Signs:
Signs shall be in compliance with the provisions of Article XIV.

Section 822 - Maximum Building Square Footage for Approved Business Uses in the B-2
District:
The maximum combined square footage footprint for any approved business use in the B-2
District shall be total of 10,000 square feet for all buildings. Business uses requiring a footprint
of more than a combined total of 10,000 square feet for all buildings shall follow the procedures
in place for conditional uses. This section shall not apply to public and quasi-public uses.




                                                28


                    ARTICLE IX - M-2 MANUFACTURING DISTRICT

Section 910 - M-2 Manufacturing District Purpose:
The purpose of this manufacturing district is to provide land for the development or operation of
manufacturing, processing, warehousing, research and testing facilities and supply yards. These
activities may require extensive community facilities or reasonable access to collector and
arterial highways and railroad facilities. They may have extensive open storage and service areas
and generate heavy traffic.

Section 920 - M-2 Manufacturing District Permitted Uses:
Within the M-2 Manufacturing District, the following uses as defined in this Resolution,
developed in accordance with all other provisions of this Resolution, shall be permitted.
   a. Offices
   b. Light and Heavy Manufacturing and Assembly
   c. Public and quasi-public uses
   d. Research laboratories, Research assembly services and Research testing facilities
   e. Service business
   f. Supply yards
   g. Transport terminals
   h. Warehouse or storage activities
   1.  Wholesale businesses

Section 930 - M-2 Manufacturing District Conditional Uses:
No conditional use shall be implemented until a conditional use permit 1s issued by the
Zoning Inspector or as otherwise provided by Ohio Revised Code§ 519.14.
   a. Agritourism
   b. Adult entertainment facilities
   c. Mineral extraction
   d. Principal Solar Energy Production Facilities
   e. Public service facility
   f. Recycling facilities
   g. Sanitary landfill

Section 940 - M-2 Manufacturing District Development Standards:
T he use of land and structures within this district shall conform to the standards contained in
sections 910 - 947.

Section 941 - M-2 Manufacturing District Minimum Lot Size:
   a. Without public services - Three (3) acres
   b. With public services - One (1) acre

Section 942 - M-2 Manufacturing District Minimum Lot Width:
250 feet

Section 943 - M-2 Manufacturing District Yard Requirements and Setbacks:
  1. A front yard setback of eighty (80) feet shall be required from the right-of-way.



                                               29


  11.   Side yards: A side yard of twenty-five (25) feet on each side shall be required. Jf the use is
        adjacent to a U-1 or R-1 district, such side yard setback shall be One hundred (100) feet
        from the shared lot line.
 111.   Rear yard setback: A rear yard setback of fifty (50) feet shall be required. If the use is
        adjacent to a U-1 or R-1 district, the rear yard setback shall be one hundred ( I 00) feet from
        the shared lot line.

Section 944 - M-2 Manufacturing District Maximum Lot Coverage:
  i. Principal & Accessory Buildings - Twenty-five percent (25%)
 ii. Building Plus Parking & Loading Areas - Fifty percent (50%)

Section 945- M-2 Manufacturing District Maximum Building Height:
Principal buildings: Fifty (50) feet

Section 946 - M-2 Manufacturing District Accessory Buildings:
   1. Must be located behind the principal structure
  11. Maximum height of twenty-five (25) feet
 111. May not be located closer than five (5) feet to any non-residential property line; may not
      be located closer than fifty (50) feet to any residential property line.

Section 947 - M-2 Manufacturing District Design Standards:
   a. Landscaping: Shall comply with the requirements of Section 1300 et seq.
   b. Parking: parking facilities shall comply with the pertinent provisions relating to parking
       as contained in Section 1100 et seq.
   c. Loading: loading facilities shall comply with the pertinent provisions relating to loading
       requirements as contained in Section 1100 et seq.
   d. Signs: All signs shall comply with the requirements of Section 1200 et seq.




                                                  30


          ARTICLE X - PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES

Section 1010 - Parking and Storage of Certain Vehicles:
The following provisions and requirements shall pertain to the parking and storage of certain
vehicles:
    1. The parking or storage, within any district, of automotive vehicles without current license
        plates, including trailers detached from semi tractors, for a period exceeding fourteen (14)
       days shall be prohibited unless such vehicle is stored in an enclosed garage or other
       accessory building;
   2. The parking or storage, within any district, of a disabled automotive vehicle for a period
       of more than thirty days shall be prohibited unless such vehicle is stored in an enclosed
       garage or other accessory building;
   3. The parking or storage, within any district, of a junked, dismantled or wrecked
       automotive vehicle or parts thereof which is in public view of any highway for a period of
        more than thirty days shall be prohibited;
   4. The parking and storage of one, unoccupied, recreational vehicle shall be permitted,
        providing the vehicle is parked at the rear of the front edge of the dwelling and complies
        in all other respects with the provisions of this resolution and all laws and ordinances,
        including but not limited to licensing and registration requirements.
   5. No motor home or camper of any type may be occupied by any guest of the resident
       owner for more than fourteen (14) days in any one calendar year. Only one motor home
       or camper will be permitted at any time.

For purposes of this section, a junked, dismantled or wrecked automotive vehicle shall be one
which is damaged to the extent that it is inoperable, or is unsafe to operate upon the public
highways. This section shall not apply to properly licensed junk yards and motor vehicle salvage
facilities which are regulated by appropriate sections of the Ohio Revised Code.




                                              31


                  ARTICLE XI - GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS

Section 1100 - General Requirements:
    I. No building or structure shall be erected, substantially altered, or its use changed unless
       permanently maintained off street parking and/or loading spaces have been provided in
       accordance with the provisions of this Resolution.
   2. The provisions of this Article, except where there is a change of use, shall not apply to
       any existing building or structure. However, unless otherwise provided herein, the
       provisions of this A1ticle shall apply to all zoning districts.
   3. Whenever a building or structure constructed after the effective date of this Resolution is
       changed or enlarged in floor area, number of employees, number of dwelling units,
       seating capacity, or otherwise to create a need for an increase in the number of existing
       parking spaces, additional parking spaces shall be provided on the basis of the
       enlargement or change.
   4. Whenever a building or structure existing prior to the effective date of this Resolution is
       constructed or enlarged in gross floor area, by number of employees, by number of
       dwelling units, by seating capacity or otherwise after the effective date of this Resolution
       such as to create a requirement under this chapter for an increase of fifty (50) percent or
       more in the number of existing parking spaces, such spaces shall be provided on the basis
       of the enlargement or change.

Section 1110 Parking Space Dimensions:
A parking space shall have minimum rectangular dimensions of not less than nine (9) feet in
width and nineteen (19) feet in length for ninety (90) degree parking, nine (9) feet in width and
twenty-three (23) feet in length for parallel parking, ten (10) feet in width and nineteen (19) feet
in length for sixty (60) degree parking, and twelve (12) feet in width and nineteen (19) feet in
length for forty-five (45) degree parking. All dimensions shall be exclusive of driveways, aisles
and other circulation areas. The number of required off-street parking spaces is established in
Section 1130 of this Resolution.

Section 1111 Loading Space Requirements and Dimensions:
A loading space shall have minimum dimensions of not less than twelve (12) feet in width ,
eighty (80) feet in length, exclusive of driveways, aisles and other circulation areas and a height
of clearance of not less than fifteen (15) feet. One off -street loading space shall be provided and
maintained on the same lot requiring delivery of goods and hav ing a modified gross floor area of
up to five thousand (5 ,000) square feet. One loading space shall be provided for each additional
ten thousand (10,000) square feet or fraction thereof of ground floor area .

Section 1112 Paving:
The required number of parking and loading spaces as set forth in Section 1111 and 1130,
together with driveways, aisles, and other circulation areas, shall be improved with such material
to provide a durable surface.

Section 1116 Location of Parking Spaces:
Regulations shall govern the location of off- street parking spaces and areas:
   1. Parking spaces for all detached residential uses shall be located on the same lot as the use


                                               32


      which they are intended to serve;
   2. Parking spaces for commercial, industrial or institutional uses shall be located no more
      than seven hundred (700) feet from the principal use;
   3. Parking spaces for any apartments, or similar residential uses sha ll be located not more
      than three hundred (300) feet from the principal use.

Section 1117 Screening and/or Landscaping:
Whenever a parking area is located in or adjacent to a residential district it shall be effectively
screened on all sides which adjoin or face any property used for residential purposes by an
acceptable designed fence or planting screen. Such fence or planting screen shall be not less than
four (4) feet nor more than six (6) feet in height, shall be maintained in good condition, and shall
comp ly with the provisions of Section 1303 of this Resolution . In the event that terrain or other
natural features are such that the erection of such fence or planting screen will not serve the
intended purpose, then no such fence or planting screen and landscaping shall be required.

Section 1119 Minimum Distance and Setbacks:
No part of any parking garage or parking area for more than ten ( 10) vehicles shall be closer than
twenty (20) feet to any dwelling unit if located on an adjoining lot, unless separated by an
acceptably designed screen. In no case shall any part of a parking garage or parking area be
closer than four (4) feet to any estab lished road right-of-way. In all other cases, any parking
garage or parking area shall be no closer than ten (1 0) feet from any adjoining property line.

Section 1120 Joint Use:
Two or more non-residential uses may jointly provide and use parking spaces when their hours
of operation do not normally overlap, provided that a written agreement approved by the Zoning
Inspector shall be filed with the application for a zoning permit.

Section 1121 Wheel Blocks:
Whenever a parking lot extends to a property line, wheel blocks or other suitable devices shall be
installed to prevent any part of a parked vehicle from extending beyond the property line.

Section 1122 Width of Driveway Aisle:
Driveway aisles serving individual parking spaces shall be not less than twenty-fi ve (25) feet
wide for ninety (90) degree parking, twelve (12) feet wide for parallel parking, seventeen and
one-half (17½) feet wide for sixty (60) degree parking and thirteen (13) feet wide for forty -fi ve
(45) degree parking.

Section 1130 Parking space Requirements. For the purpose of this Resolution , the following
parking space requirements shall apply:

                 TYPE OF USE                              PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
 Single family or two family dwelling               Two for each unit
 Apartments, or multi-famil y dwellings             Two for each unit
 Mobile homes                                       Two for each unit


                                               33


 Outdoor swimming pools, public or                  One for each 5 persons capacity plus one for
 community or club                                  each 4 seats or one for each 30 sq. ft. floor
                                                    area used for seating purposes whichever is
                                                    greater
 Retail establishments                              One for each 250 sq. ft. of floor area
 Offices, public or professional, administrative    One for each 400 sq. ft. of floor area
 or service buildings
 All other types of businesses or commercial        One for each 300 sq. ft. of floor area
 uses permitted in any district
 Churches                                           One for each 5 seats
 Al I types of manufacturing, storage and           One for every 2 employees on the largest shift
 wholesale uses                                     for which the building is designed
 Bed and Breakfast                                  As mandated by Section 1790


Section 1131 General Interpretations:
In the interpretation of this Article, the following rules shall govern .
     I. Parking spaces for other permitted or conditional uses not listed in this Article shall be
        determined by the board upon an appeal from a decision of the Zoning Inspector.
    2. Fractional numbers shall be increased to the next whole number.
    3. When a reason for parking demand is unusually low, then the parking space provisions
        cited above may be reduced proportionately by the Board upon an appeal from a
        decision of the Zoning Inspector.




                                               34


                                    ARTICLE XII - SIGNS

Section 1200 Intent:
The purpose of this Article is to promote and protect the public health, welfare and safety by
regulating existing and proposed outdoor advertising, outdoor advertising signs and outdoor
signs of all types. It is intended to protect property values, create a more attractive economic and
business climate, and enhance the physical appearance of the township.

Section 1201 Governmental Signs Excluded:
For the purpose of this Resolution "sign" does not include signs erected and maintained pursuant
to and in discharge of any governmental function , or required by law, ordinance or governmental
regulation.

Section 1202 General Requirements for all Signs and Districts :
The regulations contained in this section shall apply to all signs and all use districts.
   1. In no circumstance shall an illuminated sign or lighting device be placed or directed so as
       to permit the beams and illumination therefrom to be directed or beamed upon a public
       thoroughfare so as to cause glare or reflection that may constitute a traffic hazard or
       nuisance;
   2. No sign shall be placed on the roof of any building;
   3. No sign of any classification shall be installed, erected or attached in any form, shape or
       manner to a fire escape or any door or window giving access to any fire escape;
   4. All billboard signs shall be plainly marked with the name of the person, firm or
       corporation responsible for maintaining the sign;
   5. Should any sign be or become unsafe or be in danger of falling, the owner thereof or the
       person maintaining the same, shall upon receipt of written notice from the Zoning
       Inspector proceed at once to put such sign in a safe and secure condition or remove the
       sign;
   6. No sign shall be placed in any public right-of-way except publicly owned signs, such as
       traffic control signs and directional signs. Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking
       are permitted on any property .
   7. No sign shall be placed to obstruct any portion of a window, doorway, transom, or other
       architectural detail.
   8. No sign shall project above the edge of the roof of a structure.
   9. No sign shall project more than 12 inches from the surface upon which it is attached.

Section 1203 Measurement of Sign Area:
The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the entire area within a regular
geometric form or combinations of regular, geometric forms comprising all of the display area of
the sign and including all of the elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural
members, not being advertising matter, shall not be included in computation of surface area.

Section 1210 Signs Permitted in all Districts not Requiring a Permit:
   1. Signs advertising the sale, lease or rental of the premises upon which the sign is located,
       shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in area, except in all residential districts where
       the area of the sign shall not be more than eight (8) square feet;


                                               35


   2. Professional name plates not to exceed two (2) feet by three (3 ) feet in area;
   3. Signs denoting the name and address of the occupants of the premises, not to exceed four
      (4) square feet in area.

Section 1211 Signs Permitted In All Districts Requiring a Permit:
Any sign advertising a commercial enterprise, including real estate developers or subdividers in a
district zoned rural or residential shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in area and shall
advertise only the names of the owners, trade names, products sold and/or the business or
activity conducted on the premises where such sign is located.

Section 1212 Signs Permitted in Business and Manufacturing Districts Requiring a Permit :
The regulations set forth in this section shall apply to signs in the business and manufacturing
districts and such shall require a permit.
    1. In a business or manufacturing district, each business shall be permitted one flat or wa ll
         on-premises sign. Projection of wall signs shall not exceed 12 inches measured from the
         face of the main building. The area of all permanent on-premises signs for any single
         business enterprise may have an area equivalent to one and one-half square feet of sign
         area for each lineal foot of building width, or part of a building, occup ied by such
         enterprises but shall not exceed a maximum area of one hundred square feet.
    2. In a business or manufacturing district, one off-premises sign with a total area not
         exceeding three hundred square feet may be permitted at a single location. Off-premises
         signs visible to approaching traffic shall have a minimum spacing of not less than two
         hundred feet. Off-premises signs shall conform to all applicable yard and height
         regulations for the appropriate Zoning district, and comply with limitations specified in
         Section 1250.

Section 1220 Temporary Signs :
Temporary signs not exceeding sixty-four square feet in area, announcing special public or
institutional events, the erection of a building, the architect, the builders, or contractors may
be erected for a period of sixty days plus the construction period. Such temporary signs shall
conform to the general requirements listed in Section 1202, the setback requirements in Sections
1240-1243 and, in addition , such other standards deemed necessary to accomplish the intent as
stated in Section 1200.

Section 1221 Free Standing Signs:
Free-standing on-premises signs not over thirty feet in height, having a maximum total sign area
of one hundred square feet per display area and located not closer than fifteen feet to any
adjoining lot line may be placed to serve a business or group of business establishments. There
shall be only one free-standing sign for each building, regardless of the number of businesses
conducted in said building.

Section 1222 Wall Signs Pertaining to Non-Conforming Uses:
On premises wall signs pertaining to a non-conforming use shall be permitted on the same
premises of such use, provided the area of such sign does not exceed twelve square feet.




                                              36


Section 1230 Political Signs:
No political sign shall be posted in any place or in any manner on public property including
township right of way. No political sign shall be posted more than ten days (10) before absentee
voting begins. All candidates for public office, their campaign committees, or other persons
responsible for posting political signs or campaign material shall remove such material within
one week following Election Day.

Section 1240 Sign Setback Requirements:
Except as modified in Sections 1241 and 1243 , on-premises signs where permitted shall be set
back from the established right-of-way line of any thoroughfare at least ten feet. No off-premises
sign shall be erected in front of the required setback line for the appropriate zoning district.

Section 1241 Increased Setback:
For every square foot by which any on-premises sign exceeds fifty square feet, the setback shall
be increased by one-half foot but need not exceed one hundred feet.

Section 1243 Setbacks for Public and Quasi-public Signs:
Real estate signs and bulletin boards for a church, school or any other public, religious or
educational institution may be erected not less than ten feet from the established right-of-way
line of any street or highway provided such sign or bulletin board does not obstruct traffic
visibility at street or highway intersections.

Section 1250 Limitation:
For the purposes of this Resolution, outdoor advertising off- prem ises signs shall be classified as
a business use in all districts zoned for business, manufacturing, or lands used for agricultural
purposes. In addition, regulation of signs along primary highways shall conform to the
requirements of the Ohio Revised Code, Chapter 5516 and the regulations adopted pursuant
thereto, however, no outdoor advertising off- premises sign shall be permitted within fifteen
hundred (1500) feet of any other outdoor advertising off-premises sign. All outdoor advertising
off-premises signs shall be a conditional use in all districts.

Section 1251 Violations:
In case any sign shall be installed, erected , constructed, or maintained in violation of any of the
terms of this resolution, the Zoning Inspector shall notify in writing the owner or lessee thereof
to alter such sign so as to comply with this Resolution. Failure to comply shall be deemed a
vio lation and shall be punishable under Section 350 of this Resolution.




                                                37


                   ARTICLE XIII - LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS

Section 1301 Purpose:
The goal of this Article is to preserve and promote landscaping as a suitable and necessary aspect
of land development and to promote the public health, safety and general welfare. It is further the
purpose of this Article to promote the proper utilization of landscaping as a buffer between
certain land uses so as to minimize conflicts and to protect, preserve and promote the character
of the Township.

Section 1302 Township Rights:
The Township shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain or remove trees, plants and shrubs
within the rights of way of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes and other public grounds as may be
necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the environmental qual ity and beauty
of such public grounds. The Zoning Inspector may cause or order the removal of any tree, shrub,
vegetation or other obstacle or part thereof which is in unsafe condition or wh ich by reason of its
nature poses a threat to the interruption of service to sewers, electric power lines, water lines,
water flow or general road safety.

Section 1303 Reduction of Side and Year Lot Setbacks:
When a non -residential use abuts a residential use, the minimum side and rear lot setback
requirements mandated by this Resolution may be reduced up to fifty (50) percent by the
Township Board of Zoning Appeals if acceptable landscaping or screening is approved pursuant
to a conditional use permit or upon issuance of a variance approved by the Board.

Section 1304 Supplemental Landscape Requirements:
Whenever a parking area is located in or adjacent to a residential district it shall be effectively
screened on all sides which adjoin or face any property used for residential purposes by an
acceptable designed fence or planting screen. Such fence or planting screen shall be not less than
four (4) feet nor more than six (6) feet in height, shall be maintained in good condition, and shall
comply with the provisions of Section 1117 of this Resolution . In the event that terrain or other
natural features are such that the erection of such fence or planting screen will not serve the
intended purpose, then no such fence or planting screen and landscaping shall be required .




                                               38


                          ARTICLE XIV - NOISE REGULATIONS

Section 1401 - Loud and Unnecessary Noises Prohibited:
No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued, any loud , unnecessary or
unusual noise or any noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort,
repose, health, peace or safety of others, within the Township.

Section 1402 - Certain Loud and Disturbing Noises Enumerated:
The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises, but such
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   a. Animals and Birds. The keeping of any animal or bird by causing frequent or long
       continued noise disturbing the comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity.
   b. Defect in Vehicle or Load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out
       of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
       rattling or other noise.
   c. Domestic Power Tools. Operating or permitting the operation of any mechanically
       powered saw, sander, drill , grinder, lawn or garden tool , snow blower, small power
       equipment, or similar device used outdoors in residential areas between the hours of
        l I :00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the following day so as to cause a noise disturbance across a
       residential real property boundary.
   d. Drums. The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting
       attention by creation of noise to any performance, show or sale; not including school
       functions and athletic events.
   e. Engine-Repair and Testing. It shall be unlawful for any person to repair, rebuild or test
       any engine so as to create a noise disturbance between the hours of 11 :00 PM and 8:00
       AM the following day.
   f. Exhaust. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary
        internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle except through a muffler or other device
       which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises.
   g. Loudspeakers / Public Address System
              1.  Using or operating for any noncommercial purpose any loudspeaker, public
                  address system, or similar device between the hours of l 0:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
                  the following day, such that the sound there from creates a noise disturbance
                  across a residential real property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone.
              11. Using or operating for any commercial purpose any loudspeaker, public address
                  system , or similar device (a) such that the sound there from creates a noise
                  disturbance across a real property boundary or within a noise sens itive zone ; or
                  (b) between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. the following day on a public
                  right-of-way or public space.
   h. Radios, Musical Instruments and Similar Devices. Operating, playing or permitting the
       operation or playing of any radio, television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument,
       sound amplifier, or similar device which produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound:
              1.  Between the hours of 11 :00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the following day in such a
                  manner as to create a noise disturbance across a real prope1iy boundary or within
                  a noise sensitive zone.



                                              39


          11.   In such a manner as to create a noi se disturbance at 50 feet from such
                device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a public right-of-way or public
                space, or,
          iii . In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance to any person other than the
                operator of the device, when operated by any passenger on a common carrier.

Section 1404 - Measurement and Control of Noise:
   a. Noise Prohibited . No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued any
      noise in excess of the noise levels set forth herein unless such noise is reasonable
      necessary to the preservation of Iife, health, safety or property.
   b. Measurement and Control. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a sound from a
      stationary source which exceeds any sound level as set forth in the applicable column in
      the following table titled "Maximum Permissible Sound Levels" when measured at any
      point within any other property affected by the sound. Measurement shall be made by a
      duly authorized individual who is knowledgeable in the proper use of the measurement
      equipment. Measurement shall be made in slow response, A-weighting, except in the case
      of impulsive sound which shall be measured with an impulsive sound level meter, ANSI
      S 1.4- 1971. Octave band measurements, where noted, shall be made with an octave band
      analyzer.

       Maximum Permissible Time of Day            Continuous Sound Impulsive (db) Sound
       Sound Levels from                          (db)
       Stationary Sources
       Zoning District

       U- 1, R-1                All               60                  80
       B-2                      All               65                  90

       M-2                        II              70                  110




                                             40


                          ARTICLE XV - LIGHTING STANDARDS

Section 1500 - Lighting Standards and Requirements:
The following standards shall apply to all exterior light fixtures within the Township, except
street lighting and associated traffic devices provided by a public utility or governmental entity
within a public right-of-way.

Section 1501 - Lighting Standards (All Zoning Districts):
   1. All lights shall be shielded in such a way as to direct all light toward the Earth ' s surface
       and away from reflective surfaces.
   2. Light fixtures or lamps shall be shielded / shaded in such a manner as to direct incident
       rays away from all adjacent property.
   3. No luminaire shall have any blinking, flashing or fluttering lights or other illuminating
       device which has a changing light intensity, brightness or color nor is any beacon light
       permitted, except those required for fire alarm and/or emergency systems.
   4. Neither the direct nor reflected light from any luminaire shall create a disabling glare
       causing traffic hazards on public thoroughfares .
   5. Lights on poles shall not be taller than the building whose area they illuminate nor taller
       than twenty-five (25) feet whichever is shorter.
   6. Any facilities which may require floodlighting may not arrange the light in such a way
       that it will shine towards roadways, onto adjacent residential property or residential use
       property or into the night sky.
   7. Any interior lighted signs may not be lit at night when any face of the sign is removed or
       damaged in such a way that the light may distract drivers or homeowners.
   8. The level of lighting shall not exceed 0.5 foot-candles at any residential property line or
       1.0 foot-candle at any non-residential property line.




                                               41


     ARTICLE XVI - MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL
                          ZONING DISTRICTS

Section 1601 - Sale of Chattels from Residential Property:
The sale of chattels from residential property, in the form of garage sales, barn sales, yard sales,
and the like, shall be permitted for a period of no more than three (3) consecutive days and not
more than two (2) times per year. Sales as any other times are prohibited .

Section 1602 - Supplemental Yard and Height Regulations:
In addition to all yard regulations specified in the Official Schedule of District Regulations and
in other sections of this Resolution, the provisions of the following subsections shall be used for
interpretation and clarification.
    1. On a corner lot the principal building and its accessory structures shall be required to
        have the same setback distance from all street right-of-way lines as required for the front
        yard in the district in which such structures are located.
    2. On a corner lot in any district, nothing shall be erected, placed , planted, or allowed to
        grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision between a height of one and one-
        half ( 1 ½) to fifteen ( 15) feet above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets or
        roads in the area bounded by the right-of-way lines of such corner lots and a line joining
        points along said street or road lines one hundred ( 100) feet from the point of
        intersection.
    3. Multi-family dwellings shall be considered as one (1) building for the purpose of
        detennining front, side and rear yard requirements. The entire group as a unit shall
        require one (1) front , one (1) rear and two (2) side yards as specific for dwellings in the
        appropriate district. Each individual building shall meet all yard requirements for the
        appropriate district as though it were on an individual lot.
    4. Non-residential buildings or uses shall not be located in or conducted closer than forty
        (40) feet to any lot line of a residential structure, except that the minimum yard
        requirements may be reduced to fifty (50) percent of the requirement if acceptable
        landscaping or screening approved by the Zoning Inspector is provided. The landscaping
        or screening shall be living material forming a natural fence which material must be at
        least 4 feet at time of planting, and maintained at no less than 4 feet. Any agreed upon
        barrier, or landscaping shall not obscure traffic visibility at an intersection.
    5. Open structures such as porches, canopies, balconies, platforms, carpo11s, covered patios
        and similar architectural projections shall be considered parts of the building to which
        attached and shall not project into the required minimum front, side or rear yard.
    6. Height limitation regulations do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water
        tanks, ventilators, chimneys or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above
        the roof level and not intended for human occupancy except where the height of such
        structures will constitute a hazard.

Section 1603 - Special Provisions for Commercial and Industrial Uses. No commercial or
industrial use as designated in this Resolution nor any land or building in any district shall be
used or occupied in any manner creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise
objectionable conditions which could adversely affect the surrounding areas or adjoining
premises, except that any use permitted by this Resolution may be unde11aken and maintained if


                                               42


acceptable measures and safeguards to reduce dangerous and objectionable conditions to
acceptable limits are taken.

Section 1604 - Fire Hazards:
Any activity involving the permitted use or storage of flammable chemicals, petroleum products
or explosive materials shall be protected by adequate fire -fighting and fire prevention equipment
and by such safety devices as are normally used in the handling of any such material. Such
hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent activities to a distance which is compatible with the
potential danger involved.

Section 1605 - Electrical Disturbance:
No activity shall emit electrical disturbance adversely affecting the operation of any equipment
at any point other than that of the creator of such disturbance. The disturbance must be due
solely to the creator and not due to defective wiring, equipment etc. , at the receiving point.

Section 1606 - Adequate Drainage Outlet and Acceptable Soils:
Every lot shall have an adequate drainage outlet and acceptable soils consistent with the
requirements for the proposed use. The Union Soil & Water Conservation District shall
determine the drainage outlet adequacy and the soils acceptability. This statement, along with a
plat map of the drainage systems shall accompany the application for permit. Furthermore, all
construction (including construction of ponds and driveways) within the Township shall be
accomplished in a manner consistent with maintenance and good surface drainage. In all
improvements or uses where submittal of drainage plans is not specifically required, proper
drainage on subject property and adjacent or servient prope11ies shall be maintained or restored at
equal or greater capacity as determined by the Union Soil and Water Conservation District. In no
event shall any person interdict or interfere with any existing tile or surface drain channel unless
it is determined that such tile or channel can be removed or relocated without interfering with the
drainage on adjacent properties. Pre-existing drainage tile draining adjoining property shall be
restored or re-routed when cut, crushed, or otherwise affected by any construction, excavation, or
utility installation on any lot.

Section 1607 - Water Pollution:
Water pollution as defined or determined by the County Board of Health or the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency shall be subject to corrective measures, requirements and
regulations as established by the Board of Health or the Ohio E.P .A.

Section 1608 - Mining, Mineral, Sand and Gravel Extraction, Storage and Processing:
The extraction, storage and processing of minerals shall be conducted in accordance with the
following requirements:
    1. Mineral extraction, storage or processing shall not be conducted closer than 500 feet from
       any residential district, nor closer than 500 feet from any structure used for human
       occupancy in any other district.
    2. The operator shall file with the Zoning Inspector a location map which clearly shows
       areas to be mined and the location of adjacent properties, roads and natural features.
    3. The operator shall submit information on the anticipated depth of excavations and on
       depth and probable effect on the existing water table as coordinated with the Ohio


                                               43


      Division of Water.
   4. The operator may be required to file with the Board of Zoning Appeals a detailed plan for
      the restoration of the area to be mined which shall include the anticipated future use of
      the restored land.
   5. The operator may be required to file with the Board of Township Trustees a bond, or
      other surety in an amount acceptable to the Board of Township Trustees, payable to the
      township and conditioned on the faithful performance of all requirements contained in the
      approved restoration plan including repairs to township roads damaged in the process.
      The bond or other surety shall be released upon written certification of the zoning
      inspector that the restoration is complete and in compliance with the restoration plan.
   6. The Zoning Inspector, prior to the issuance of a zoning permit, may require the
      submission of statements and plans indicating the manner in which dangerous and
      objectionable elements involved in processing and in equipment operations are to be
      eliminated or reduced to acceptable limits and tolerances. The area being mined or that
      has been mined shall be posted with "No Trespassing" signs and shall utilize other
      safeguards as may be mandated by the Board of Zoning Appeals to discourage human
      injury to the general public.
   7. Methods and procedures for the determination of the existence of any dangerous and
      objectionable elements shall conform to applicable standard measurement procedures
      published by the American Standards Association , Inc., New York; the Manufacturing
      Chemists' Association , Inc., Washington, D.C.; the United States Bureau of Mines and
      the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency .

Section 1609 - Roadside Produce Stands:
A bui !ding for the sale of home-grown produce may be located not less than twenty-five feet
from the highway right-of-way if it is a portable building. If portable, it shall be removed from
its roadside location during the season that it is not in use as a roadside produce stand. A
permanent structure for such use may be constructed , but shall be located not less than fifty feet
from the highway right-of -way line. Parking shall be provided off the highway right-of-way.

Section 1610 - Sanitary Landfill and Incinerator:
No person shall begin , operate or maintain for commercial business purposes, a sanitary landfill
or incinerator as defined in Section 1901 of this resolution.

Section 1611 - Storage of Toxic or Hazardous Materials:
Except as exempted hereafter, the storage of toxic or hazardous materials, as determined by the
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, in quantities greater than 55 gallons liquid or 25 pounds
dry weight for any one material shall be prohibited. This section shall not apply to fuels stored in
less than 1, I 00 gallon tanks that conform with the Ohio Fire Code for the purpose of heating
buildings and located on site, nor to materials stored for on-site residential , industrial ,
commercial or agricultural purposes.
" Storage" when used in connection with this section , means the containment of hazardous
materials, either on a temporary basis or for a period of years, in such a manner as not to
constitute disposal of the material.




                                               44


Section 1612 - Agritourism
In the interest of protecting the public health and safety, an Agritourism use shall satisfy the
conditions in this Section. Capitalized Terms not defined in this Section shall have the respective
meanings given to them in Article II, Definitions of the Zoning Resolution or the Ohio Revised
Code.

Jn addition to the procedure for approval of conditional use permits, as stated in Section 560 and
546-548, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall direct the Zoning Jnspector to issue a conditional
use permit if the applicant establishes the following conditions have been met by a
preponderance of the evidence presented in the application for conditional use permit and at the
hearing:

   I. The Agritourism use will be on a " Farm".
   2. Each proposed Agritourism Use is an agriculturally related educational , entertainment,
      historical , cultural , and/or recreational activity (including you-pick operations or farm
      markets) conducted on a Farm that allows or invites members of the general public to
      observe, patiicipate in, or enjoy the activity . A narrative statement regarding this shall be
      provided by the applicant and it shall replace and substitute any narrative statement
      otherwise required as part of an application for conditional use permits.
   3. A site plan of the proposed Agritourism site showing the following when applicable:
          a. The floor areas, heights, and setbacks of all structures, including buildings, used
              primarily for Agritourism ; and ,
          b. The size and setbacks of all parking areas, including loading spaces, used
              primarily for Agritourism; and ,
          c. Provisions for egress and ingress.
      These criteria shall replace and substitute any site plan otherwise required as part of an
      application for conditional use permits .
   4. The size and setback for any structure used primarily for Agritourism shall conform to
      the requirements of the zoning district where the Agritourism use will be located and/or
      any size and/or setback requirements, if any, specified in this Section.
   5. Off-street parking in accordance with setback and size requirements (only) in Article XI
      General Parking Regulations shall be provided.
          a. Additionall y, off-street parking of a size adequate to meet peak time demand shall
              be provided in a manner that does not cause nuisance or conflict with adjoining
              properties. Estimates of traffic generation shall be submitted. In no instance shall
              parking be permitted within yard setback areas or within 20 feet of the road right-
              of-way.
          b. The Board of Zoning Appeals may not require any parking area to be improved in
              any manner, including requirements governing drainage, parking area base,
              parking area paving, or any other improvement.
   6. Safe and adequate ingress and egress shall be maintained at all times.
   7. The Board of Zoning Appeals may not prescribe conditions and/or safeguards not
      otherwise stated in thi s Section.

Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing required in Section 546, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall either approve or disapprove the application . Appeals from Board decisions shall


                                              45


be made in a manner specified in Section 530.

Section 1613 - Manufactured & Mobile Homes/ Mobile Home Parks Purpose:
Because terms for manufactured housing such as those currently listed in the Definitions tend to
change over the years, the purpose and intent of the definition is to draw a distinction between
dwellings that are produced and erected in assembly line style at the factory , from those stick-
built dwellings in which a substantial amount of material and construction labor are brought
together in final form at the foundation site. The above explanation is the spirit in which any
future interpretation shall be made from this section, no matter what terms for manufactured
housing are in vogue at any given time.
Section 1614- Manufactured Homes Permitted Uses:
Manufactured homes are permitted in Paris Township pursuant to the pertinent provisions of the
Ohio Revised Code . These homes are permitted in any Zoning District that permits single family
residential housing, so long as they comply with all other criteria of that district.
Manufactured homes must sit on a permanent foundation which is constructed around the
perimeter of the house.

Section 1615 - Permanently Sited Manufactured Housing:
A permanently sited manufactured home must meet the following criteria:
   a. The structure is attached to a permanent foundation and is connected to facilities and
      utilities.
   b. The structure, excluding any addition, has a minimum width of 22 feet.
   c. It must have a total Iiving area, excluding a garage, porch or other attachments, of at least
      1,400 square feet.
   d. It has a minimum of 3:12 roof pitch, conventional residential siding and a 6" minimum
      eave overhang including appropriate gutters.
   e. It was manufactured after January 1, 1995.
   f. It is not located in a mobile home park.

Section 1616 - Intent
It is the intent of this Article to regulate the location of, and to encourage, stabilize and protect
the development of well-planned mobile home parks if one is proposed after the adoption or
amendment of this Resolution .

Section 1617 - Approval Procedures
Mobile homes shall only be permitted in mobile home parks. Mobile home parks shall be
permitted only as a Conditional Use in the U-1 District.

Section 1618 - General Standards for Mobile Home Parks
A new or expanded mobile home park shall:
   1. be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to be harmonious and appropriate
      in appearance with the existing or intended character of the general vicinity and that such
      use wi II not change the essential character of the same area;
   2. not be hazardous or detrimental to existing or future neighboring uses;
   3. be served adequately by essential public facilities and services such as highways, police
      and fire protection, drainage, refuse disposal , etc. ; or that the persons or agencies


                                                 46


      responsible for the establishment of the proposed park shall be able to provide adequately
      any such needed services;
   4. be consistent with the intent and purpose of this Resolution;
   5. have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so designed as not to create an
      interference with the traffic on surrounding public highways ;
   6. not result in the destruction, loss or damage of natural features or major importance.

Section 1619 - Mobile Home Park Requirements
Mobile home parks shall be developed in accordance with the requirements of the pertinent
provisions of the Ohio Revised Code and all state and local sanitary restrictions including
Chapter 37-1-27 of the Ohio Sanitary Code as well as Ohio Revised Code, Section 4781 , as
amended.

Section 1620 - Minimum Floor Area
Individual mobile homes located within the park shall have a minimum floor area of nine
hundred (900) square feet using accepted industry measurement standards.




                                             47


            ARTICLE XVII-SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS

Section 1700 - General:
The purpose of the supplementary district regulations is to set specific conditions for various
uses, classification of uses or areas where problems may be encountered. These regulations apply
to all districts in which the uses may be allowed.

Section 1710 - Conversion of Dwellings to More Units:
A residence may be converted to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units provided:
    1. The yard dimensions, including minimum lot width still meet the yard dimensions
       required by the zoning regulations for new structures in that district in which the dwe ll ing
       is located ;
   2. The lot area per family equals the lot area requirements for new structures in that district;
   3. The floor area per dwelling unit is not reduced to less than that which is required for new
       construction in that district.

Section 1720 - Temporary Buildings:
Temporary buildings, construction trailers, equipment and materials used in co njunction with
construction work only may be permitted in any district during the period construction work is in
progress, but such temporary facilities shall be removed upon completion of the construction
work. Storage of such facilities or equipment beyond the completion date of the project shall
require a zoning permit authorized by the zoning inspector.

Section 1730 - Private Swimming Pools:
Any private swimming pool , exclusive of portable swimm ing pools with a diameter less than 12
feet or with an area of less than I 00 square feet, must comply with the following conditions and
requirements:
The pool is intended and is to be used solely for the enjoyment of the occupants of the principal
use of the prope1ty on which it is located;
It may not be located , including any walks or paved areas or accessory structures adjacent
thereto, closer than IO feet to any pro petty Iine of the prope1ty on which it is located ;
The swimming pool or the entire property on which it is located shall be walled or fenced to
prevent uncontrolled access by children from adjacent properties. Said fence or wall shall be not
less than five feet in height and maintained in good condition with a gate and lock.

Section 1740 - Community or Club Swimming Pools start here in October 2013:
Community and club swimming pools are permitted as commercial or non-commercial recreation
and shall comply with the following conditions and requirements:
    I. The pool is intended solely for the enjoyment of the members and families and guests of
       members of the association or club under whose ownership or jurisdiction their pool is
       operated ;
   2. The pool and accessory structures thereto, including the area used by the bathers, shall
       not be closer than fifty feet to any property line;
   3. The swimming pool and all of the area used by the bathers shall be wal led or fenced to
       prevent uncontrolled access by children from the thoroughfare or adjacent properties.
       Said fence or wall shall not be less than five feet in height and maintained in good


                                               48


       condition with a gate and I ock.

Section 1750 - Ponds/Wetlands:
Manmade ponds or wetlands greater than I 000 square feet in area may be excavated as a
conditional use providing the following standards are met:
   I . The pond or wetland shall be designed in accordance with, and reviewed by the Union
        County Soil and Water Conservation District. The District shall be responsible for the
        on-site inspection to assure the pond is constructed according to approved plans.
   2. A private engineer must design the pond or wetland. Every pond must have an approved
        outlet to a creek, river or adequate swale.
   3. No pond, wetland or the resulting construction thereof, shall interfere with the natural
        flow of water in the area.
   4. The Union County Soil and Water Conservation District must review and approve any
        pond site prior to pond design for ponds greater than 9,000 square feet.

Section 1760 - Telecommunications Towers
As provided for in Section 519.211 of the Ohio Revised Code, Public Utilities or other
functionally equivalent providers may site a telecommunications tower as a conditional use
provided the following conditions are met:
    1. The maximum height of a tower shall not exceed 200' .
   2. The tower and any stabilization structures or guide wires shall comply with the following
       setbacks and requirements:
            a. A distance equal to 1.1 times its total height from any public road right of way,
                unless written permission is granted from the governmental entity with
                jurisdiction over the road ;
            b. A distance equal to 1.1 times its total height from any overhead utility lines,
                unless written permission is granted from the affected utility;
            c. A distance equal to 1.1 times its total height from all property lines, and
            d. To provide for a "clear fall zone" that shall be maintained at all times the tower is
                standing. The "clear fall zone" along with the manufacturers recommendations of
                such a zone must be attached to the engineering report submitted as part of the
                application.
    3. The tower shall not be placed closer than a distance equal to 1.1 times its total height
        from any existing structure dwelling.
   4. Minimum lot size for which a tower is to be placed shall be 2 acres.
    5. Security fencing shall be provided to prevent uncontrolled access to the tower site.
    6. The tower shall be designed to aesthetically complement the surrounding community.
       Towers shall be painted in a non-contrasting color minimizing visibility unless otherwise
        required by the FCC or FAA.
    7. A landscaping plan must be submitted and approved by the Board of Zoning Appeal. An
        evergreen hedge planted three feet on center or an evergreen tree line planted five feet on
        center is suggested. All existing vegetation shall be retained and maintained to the extent
        possible.
    8. Advertising shall not be permitted anywhere on the tower or site with the exception of
        identification signs and no trespassing signed , which are required .
    9. The tower shall not be artificially lighted except to assure safety or as required by the


                                               49


        FAA.
    10. Towers must be designed and ce11ified by an engineer to be structurally sound and, at a
        minimum , in conformance with the Ohio Basic Building Code.
    11. The tower shall be fully automated and unattended on a daily basis, and shall be visited
        only for periodic and necessary maintenance.
    12. Applicant or tower provider shall demonstrate that the telecommunication tower must
        be located where it is proposed in order to service the applicant's service area and
        that no viable siting alternative exists. There shall be an explanation of why a tower at
        this proposed site is technically necessary.
    13. Where the tower is located on a prope11y with another principle use, the app licant shall
        present documentation that the owner of the property supports the application and that
        vehicular access is provided to the property. Reasonable access and circulation shall be
        provided to the tower.
    14. App licant shall provide a signed statement indicating that:
            a. the applicant agrees to allow for the potential co-location of other users on the
                same tower to the extent possible ;
            b. the tower shall be removed within one hundred eighty (180) days after the site ' s
                use is discontinued;
            c. other co-location opportunities have been explored and are unavailable;
            d. notice has been provided as required in Section 303.211 of the Ohio Revised
                Code .
    15. A tower may be attached to a residential or non-residential building or a structure that is a
        permitted use in the district; including, but not limited to, a church, a municipal or
        governmental building or facility, agricultural building, and a building or structure owned
        by a utility, provided conditions 2 through 14 above are met and the tower height does not
        exceed 20 feet above the existing building or structure to which the tower is attached.

Section 1761- Exception to Telecommunications Towers Regulations:
Should a public telecommunication organization desire to co-locate a tower with either another
existing tower or a utility structure (i.e. water tower) then a Zon ing Comp liance
Certificate may be obtained in lieu of a Conditional Use Permit provided conditions 3, 5, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 11 of§ 1760 are observed .

Section 1758 Small Solar Energy Systems (Less than SOMW)
A. Accessory Solar Energy Systems
It is the purpose of this regulatio n to promote the safe, effective, and efficient use of accessory
solar energy systems installed to reduce the on-site consumption of utility-supplied electricity.
An accessory solar energy system shall be considered a permitted accessory use in any district
provided all requirements and regulations as set forth below are met.

No person shall cause, al low or maintain the use of an accessory solar energy system without
first having obtained a zoning permit from the zoning inspector.

All accessory solar energy systems shall meet the following requirements:
    1. An accessory solar energy system is permitted in a ll zoning districts as an accessory to a
       principal use.


                                                50


2. An accessory solar energy system shall not be used for the generation of power for the
   sale or donation of energy to other users, although this provision shall not be interpreted
   to prohibit the sale or donation of excess power generated from time to time to the local
   utility company or the sale of donation of power as part of a net metering or similar
   arrangement. Net metering or similar arrangements are those where electricity produced
   by the accessory solar energy system displaces electricity that would otherwise be
   purchased from an electric utility or supplier for the lot where the accessory system is
   located. Net metering or similar arrangements shall be incidental and secondary to the
   production for on-site use.
3. Accessory solar energy systems with a generation output of five hundred (500) watts or
   less, or a combination of accessory solar energy systems with an aggregate generation
   output of five hundred (500) watts or less, shall not require a permit and shall be exempt
   from the requirements of this section , provided that the system is independent and
   disconnected from the electrical service(s) supplied to the lot on which the accessory
   so lar energy system is located.
4. Roof/Building mounted accessory solar energy systems:
        a. Shall not extend beyond the perimeter (or edge of roof) of the building on which
            it is located .
        b. May be mounted to a principal or accessory building.
        c. The height of the solar energy system and building to which it is mounted may
            not exceed the ridgeline of the roof for hip, gable, and gambrel roofs.
5. Ground/Pole mounted accessory solar energy systems:
        a. Shall be no taller than seventy-five (75) percent of the maximum building height
            allowed in that zoning district for accessory buildings.
        b. Shall be permitted in the rear or side yard only.
        c. Shall be erected within an established clear fall zone.
        d. The minimum setback distance from the property lines for structures comprising
            the solar energy systems and all related equipment shall be at least one hundred
            ten ( 1 I 0) percent of the height of any structure or at least twenty (20) feet from
            the nearest property line, whichever is greater.
6. Other structure mounted accessory solar energy systems:
        a. Shall be no taller than seventy-five (75) percent of the maximum building height
            allowed in that zoning district for accessory buildings.
        b. Shall be permitted in the rear or side yard only.
        c. Shall be erected within an established clear fall zone.
        d. The minimum setback distance from the property lines for structures comprising
            solar energy systems and all related equipment shall be at least one hundred ten
            ( I I 0) percent of the height of any structure or at least twenty (20) feet from the
            nearest property line, whichever is greater.
7. Accessory solar energy systems shall be designed and located in order to prevent
   reflective glare toward any inhabited structure on adjacent properties as well as adjacent
   street right of ways.
8. Accessory solar energy systems and all solar energy equipment that are no longer
   functioning shall be completely removed from the property within six (6) months from
   the date they are no longer producing electricity, become damaged, discontinued or
   broken . Any earth disturbance as a result of the removal of the accessory solar energy


                                            51


       system shall be graded and reseeded within thirty (30) days of removal.
    9. In addition to the site plan required for any zoning permit or conditional use permit, the
       following shall also be submitted at the time of application and shall include:
           a. Height of the proposed solar energy system(s) at maximum tilt.
           b. Evidence of established setbacks of 1.1 . times the height of any ground/pole
               mounted or other structure mounted solar energy systems and "clear fall zone".
           c. Proof of notice to the electric utility company, Soil and Water Conservation
               District (for drainage impact purposes), and County Health Department/ District
               (for on-site sewage treatment impacts) regarding the proposal.

8. Principal Solar Energy Production Facilities
It is the purpose of this regulation to promote the safe, effective, and efficient use of principal
solar energy production facilities principally designed to produce greater levels of electrical
energy, either for consumers with higher energy demand levels or designed primarily to produce
energy to be supplied directly to the electrical grid. No Principal Solar Energy Production
Facility shall be located in a zoning district where such facilities are not explicitly listed as a
permitted or conditionally permitted use.

It is not the purpose of this regulation to regulate a major utility facility as defined by the Ohio
Power Siting Board (50 MW or greater).

All principal solar energy production facilities shall meet the following requirements:
    1. The proposed principal solar energy production facility must be located on a lot of at
        least ten (I 0) acres in size.
    2. For purposes of determining lot coverage, the total surface area of all ground/pole
        mounted solar energy systems including cells, panels, and water collector devices shall be
        considered impervious and shall count toward the maximum percent of a lot to be
        occupied. This is in addition to any standard calculation as defined in this Resolution for
        lot coverage.
    3. All on-site utility, distribution, and transmission lines, that are the responsibility of the
        principal solar energy production facility to maintain , shall be placed underground .
    4. Roof/ Building mounted solar energy systems:
            a. Shall not extend beyond the perimeter (or edge of roof) of the building on which
                 it is located.
             b. May be mounted to a principal or accessory building.
            c. The height of the solar energy system and building to which it is mounted may
                 not exceed the ridgeline of the roof for hip, gable, and gambrel roofs.
    5. Ground/Pole mounted solar energy systems:
            a. Shall be no taller than seventy-five (75 ) percent of the maximum building height
                allowed in that zoning district for accessory buildings.
             b. Shall be erected within an established clear fall zone.
            c. The minimum setback distance from the property lines for structures comprising
                 solar energy systems and all related equipment shall be at least one hundred ten
                 ( 110) percent of the height of any structure or at least twenty (20) feet from the
                 nearest property line, whichever is greater.
    6. Other structure mounted so lar energy systems:

                                                52


        a. Shall be no taller than seventy-five (75) percent of the maximum building height
            allowed in that zoning district for accessory buildings.
        b. Shall be erected within an established clear fall zone.
        c. The minimum setback distance from the property lines for structures comprising
             solar energy systems and all related equipment shall be at least one hundred ten
             ( 110) percent of the height of any structure or at least twenty (20) feet from the
             nearest property line, whichever is greater.
7. Solar energy systems shall be designed and located in order to prevent reflective glare
    towards any inhabited building on adjacent properties as well as adjacent street right-of-
    way. Applicants must complete and provide the results of the Solar Glare Hazard
    Analysis Tool (SGHAT), or an equivalent repo1t, for neighboring lots and right-of-way.
8. The proposed principal solar energy production facility must comply with any applicable
    airpo1i zoning overlay and height restrictions, and the ability to comply with the FAA
    regulations pertaining to hazards to air navigation must be demonstrated.
9. All mechanical equipment of solar energy systems including any structure for batteries or
    storage cells, shall be completely enclosed by a minimum seven (7) foot high fence with
    a self-locking gate, and provide screening in accordance with this Resolution.
10. Screening shall be established in accordance with the provisions of this Resolution, be
    maintained in good condition, and free of all advertising or other signs. In addition to any
    other screening requirements of this Resolution, the following standards shall apply:
        a. Any buildings and solar energy equipment shall be screened from ground-level
             view from any adjacent road right-of-way, any adjacent lot with a residential use,
             and any residential zoning district.
        b. Screening shall consist of vegetation, mounding, natural landforms, or any
             combination thereof. Screening may be supplemented by fencing or walls, but
             shall not be the primary method.
                  i. Fencing shall incorporate gaps or spaces of at least six (6) inches by six
                     (6) inches to allow passage of small mammals.
        c. Screening shall be a minimum of six (6) feet in height.
        d. Mounding shall be seeded and planted with trees. The base of the mound shall not
             be graded at an angle greater than forty -five degrees (45 °).
        e. Screening shall be clustered around groups of solar energy equipment and
             buildings and not the entirety of the lot to allow for " wildlife corridors" where
             wildlife can traverse the lot.
11. Buffering shall be established in accordance with the provisions of this Resolution. In
    addition to any other buffering requirements of this Resolution, the following standards
    shall apply:
        a. A one-hundred and twenty (120) foot setback along stream boundaries (including
             ephemeral and intermittent streams).
        b. A one-hundred and twenty (120) foot setback from Category 1 and 2 wetland
             boundaries.
        c. A three-hundred (300) foot setback from Category 3 wetland boundaries.
12. Setback requirements for solar energy equipment not housed in a building, shall be:
        a. One-hundred and fifty ( 150) feet from lot lines of non-participating lots.
        b. Three-hundred (300) feet from any dwelling.
        c. One-hundred and fifty (150) feet from the edge of any adjacent road right-of-way.

                                           53


Setbacks for all other buildings and structures from lot lines and adjacent zoning districts shall be
twenty (20) feet or the principal structure setback for the underlying zoning district, whichever is
greater.
    13. Ingress and egress driveways, interior access/maintenance roads, and any off-street
         parking and circulation routes shall be constructed with a durable and dust-free surface.
    14. Areas that are undeveloped, areas not required for regular maintenance, and other spaces
         not devoted to the active use of the lot (such as in between rows of ground mounted solar
         panels) shall be landscaped with vegetation in such a manner as to prevent soil erosion by
         wind or rain or the spreading of invasive species and noxious weeds. Plantings shall
         follow the standards set forth in the Ohio Depaiiment of Natural Resources (ODNR)
       Guidance for Proposed Solar Energy Facilities in Ohio.
   15. Solar energy systems and all solar energy equipment that are no longer functioning shall
       be completely removed from the property within six (6) months from the date they are
       no longer producing electricity, become damaged, discontinued or broken. Any eaiih
       disturbance as a result of the removal of the ground mounted solar energy system shall be
       graded and reseeded within thirty (30) days of removal.
   16. In addition to the site plan required for any zoning permit or conditional use permit, the
       following shall also be submitted at the time of the application and shall include:
           a . Height of the proposed solar energy system(s) at maximum tilt.
           b. Evidence of established setbacks of 1.1 times the height of any ground/pole
               mounted or other structure mounted solar energy systems and "clear fall zone".
           c. Proof of notice to the electric utility, Soil and Water Conservation District (for
               drainage impact purposes), and County Health Department/District (for on-site
               sewage treatment impacts) regarding the proposal.
           d. Letters from the County Engineer, Township, and State Department of
               Transportation regarding the status of any Road User Maintenance Agreement.
           e. A drainage plan , including any methods of storm water management, and
               existence of any subsurface drainage systems. The County Engineer's Office, Soil
               and Water Conservation District, and if applicable, the Farm Service Agency shall
               be contacted to confirm the existence, or potential existence, and location of any
               subsurface drainage systems.
           f. Proof of notice and/or compliance with County-level stormwater and sediment
               control regulations.
           g. A narrative of expected and potential impacts to ecological , cultural,
               archeological , and agricultural resources and impacts to neighboring land uses.
           h. A landscaping plan.
           i. A screening and buffering plan, including any wildlife corridors.
           j. A narrative addressing the expected lifespan of the facility , expected regular
               maintenance activities, and an end-of-life decommissioning plan.
           k. A li st of all adjacent prope1iy owners , their parcel numbers, and addresses.


Section 1770 -Small Wind Energy Project Regulations:

Section 1771 - Authority:
This regulation is adopted pursuant to authority granted by O.R.C. § § 519.02 to 519.25.

                                               54


Section 1772 - Purpose:
The purpose of this regulation is to establish regulations for small wind energy projects in
order to preserve and protect the public health and safety .

Section 1773 - Applicability:
This regulation applies to all lands within the boundaries of Paris Township, Union County,
Ohio.

Section 1774 - Terms relevant to Small Wind Energy Project Regulation:
In this regulation:
     1. "Owner" means the person that owns a small wind energy project or met tower and the
         property on which the small wind energy project or met tower is located.
    2. " Rotor Diameter" means the cross sectional dimension of the circle swept by the rotating
         blades.
    3. "Small wind energy project" means a wind energy project that has a nameplate capacity
         of 25 kilowatts or less, has a total height of 140 feet or less, and is primarily used to
         generate energy for use by its owner.
    4. "Total height" means the vertical distance from ground level to the tip of a wind
         generator blade when the tip is at its highest point.
    5. "Tower" means either the freestanding, guyed, or monopole structure that supports a
         wind generator or the freestanding, guyed, or monopole structure that is used as a met
         tower.
    6. "Wind energy project" means equipment that converts and then stores or transfers energy
         from the w ind into usable forms of energy (as defined by ORC § 1551.20) and includes
         any base, blade, foundation, generator, nacelle, rotor, tower, transformer, turbine, vane,
         wire, or other component used in the project.
    7. "Wind generator" means the mechanical and electrical conversion components mounted
         at the top of a tower in a wind energy project.

Section 1775 Standards - Small Wind Energy Project:
A small wind energy project shall be a conditional use in any district subject to the
following requirements :
    1. Set backs . A wind tower for a small wind energy project must be set back:
           a. A distance equal to 1.1 times its total height from any public road right of way,
              unless written permission is granted from the governmental entity with
              jurisdiction over the road;
           b. A distance equal to 1.1 times its total height from any overhead utility lines,
              unless written permission is granted from the affected utility;
           c. A distance equal to 1.1 times its total height from all property lines, and
           d. To provide for a "clear fall zone" that shall be maintained at all times the turbine
              or tower is standing. The "clear fall zone" along with the manufacturers
              recommendations of such a zo ne must be attached to the engineering report
              submitted as part of the application.
    2. Sound. The noi se generated by the operation of a small wind energy project may not
       exceed 45 decibels measured at the closest neighboring property line, except during


                                               55


        short- term events such as utility outages and severe windstorms.
   3. Blade Clearance. The vertical distance from ground level to the tip of a wind generator
        blade when the blade is at its lowest point shall be at least 30 feet.
   4. Access . All ground-mounted electrical and control equipment must be labeled and
        secured to prevent unauthorized access. A tower may not have step bolts or a ladder
        within 8 feet of the ground that is readily accessible to the public.
   5. Electrical Wires. All electrical wires associated with a small wind energy project, other
        than wires necessary to connect the wind generator to the tower wiring, the tower wiring
        to the disconnect junction box, and the grounding wires, must be located underground .
   6. Lighting. A wind tower and generator may be artificially lighted only if lighting is
        required by the Federal Aviation Administration.
   7. Appearance, Color, and Finish. The wind generator and tower shall remain painted or
        finished the color or finish that was originally applied by the manufacturer.
   8. Signs. No sign, other than a warning sign or installer, owner, or manufacturer
        identification sign, may be placed on any component of a small wind energy project.
   9. Code Compliance. A small wind energy project, including tower, shall comply with all
        applicable state construction and electrical codes, and the National Electrical Code.
   10. Signal Interference. The owner of a small wind energy project or met tower must take
        reasonable steps to prevent and eliminate any interference with the transmiss ion and
        reception of electromagnetic communications, such as microwave, radio, telephone, or
        television signals.
   11 . Uti lity Interconnection . A small wind energy project that connects to the electric
        utility must comply with all pertinent provisions of the Ohio Revised Code.

Section 1776 - Standards: Met Tower:
A met tower shall be a conditional use in any district subject to the same standards as a small
wind energy project set fotih in Section 1700, except for the standards contained in subs. 1775(2)
and 1775(3).

Section 1777 - Permit Requirement
    I. Conditional Use Permit. A Conditional Use permit is required for the installation of a
       small wind energy project or a met tower.
   2. Site Plan Review. The Conditional Use Permit application shall be accompanied by a site
       plan which includes the following:
           a. Property lines and physical dimensions of the property ;
           b. Location , dimensions, and types of existing major structures on the property;
           c. Location of the proposed wind project tower;
           d. Location of any overhead utility lines on or adjacent to the property;
           e. The right-of-way of any public road that is contiguous with the property;
           f. Description and specifications of the components of the small wind energy
              project, met tower, or both, including the manufacturer, model, capacity, blade
              length , rotor diameter, and total height of any small wind energy project; and
           g. A statement from the applicant that all Wind Energy Project(s) will be installed in
              compliance w ith manufacturer's specifications, and a copy of those
              manufacturer's specifications.
   3. Fees. The application for a Conditional Use permit for a small wind energy project must


                                              56


      be accompanied by the appropriate fee required.
   4. Expiration. A Conditional Use permit issued pursuant to this regulation shall expire if:
          a. The small wind energy project or met tower is not installed and functioning within
               12 months from the date the Conditional Use permit is issued ; or
          b. The small wind energy project is out of service or otherwise unused for a
              continuous 12-month period.
   5. Building Permits- Applicants for all small wind energy projects and parts thereof
      shall obtain all applicable Building Permits from the State of Ohio and the County
      Building Regulators, as required .
   6. The system shall comply with all applicable Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
      requirements, including Part 77 of Title 14 of the Code of Federal Aviation Regulations
      regarding installations close to airpo1ts .
   7. The Conditional Use Permit application for a small wind energy project shall include
      standard drawings and an engineering analysis and report of the system ' s tower and
      certification by a professional mechanical, structural, or civil engineer.

Section 1778 - Abandonment:
    1. A small wind energy project or met tower that is out- of-service for a continuous 12-
       month period will be deemed to have been abandoned. The Township Zoning Inspector
       may issue a Notice of Abandonment to the owner of the small wind energy project or met
       tower that is deemed to have been abandoned. The owner shall have the right to respond
       to the Notice of Abandonment within 30 days from the Notice date. The Township
       Zoning Inspector shall withdraw the Notice of Abandonment and notify the owner that
       the Notice has been withdrawn if the owner provides verification that demonstrates the
       small wind energy project or met tower has not been abandoned.
   2. If the small wind energy project or met tower is determined to be abandoned, the small
       wind energy project or met tower must be removed within 90 days of the Notice of
       Abandonment and the site must be reclaimed. Reclamation includes removal of all
       apparatuses, supports and or other hardware associated with the existing wind turbine. If
       the owner fails to remove a small wind energy project or met tower and reclaim the site,
       the Township may remove or cause the removal of the small wind energy project or met
       tower and cause the site to be reclaimed. The cost of removal and reclamation will
       become a lien upon the property and may be collected in the same manner as property
       taxes.

Section 1779 - Conditional Use Permit Procedure:
   1. An Owner shall submit an application to the township zoning inspector for a conditional
       use permit for a small wind energy project. The application must be on a form approved
       by the Township and must be accompanied by seven (7) copies of the site plan identified
       in Section 1777(2) above.
   2. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall authorize issuance of a permit or deny the application
       within the time provisions set out in Section 541 of the Paris Township Zoning
       Resolution.
   3. The Board of Zoning Appeals may authorize the issuance of a conditional use permit for
       a small wind energy project after a public hearing held pursuant to the provisions of§
       546 on the application if the application and supporting materials show that the proposed


                                             57


      small wind energy project meets the requirements of this regulation and the use is
      otherwise authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   4. The Owner shall conspicuously post the conditional use permit on the premises so as to
      be visible to the public at all times until construction or installation of the small wind
      energy project is complete.

Section 1780 - Violations:
   1. It is unlawful for any person to construct, install , or operate a small wind energy project
      or met tower that is not in compliance with this regulation or with any condition
      contained in a permit issued pursuant to this regulation. A small wind energy project or
      met tower that was installed prior to the effective date of this regulation is exempt from
      the requirements of this regulation.
   2. It is unlawful for a person to disobey, fail , neglect, or refuse to comply with or
      otherwise resist an order issued pursuant to this regulation.

Section 1781 - Enforcement:
   l. The Zoning Inspector may enter any property for which a permit has been issued under
      this regulation to conduct an inspection to determine whether there is any violation of this
      regulation or whether the conditions stated in the permit have been met.
   2. The Township Zoning Inspector may issue an order to abate any violation of this
      regulation.
   3. The Township Zoning Inspector may issue a citation for any violation of this
      regulation.
   4. The Township Zoning Inspector may refer a violation of this regulation to legal counsel
      for legal action.

Section 1782 - Penalties:
   1. Any person who fails to comply with any provision of this regulation or a building permit
      issued pursuant to this regulation shall be subject to enforcement and penalties as
      stipulated in the Paris Township Zoning Regulations.
   2. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the Paris Township Board of
      Trustees from using any other lawful means to enforce this regulation.

Section 1783 - Relationship to Other Regulations:
This regulation does not abrogate, annul , impair, interfere with, or repeal any existing regulation.

Section 1784 - Severability:
The provisions of this regulation are severable, and the invalidity of any section, subsection,
paragraph , or subdivision will not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remainder of the
regulation.

Section 1790 - Bed and Breakfast Operations:
A valid zoning permit must be obtained and the following conditions must be met for all bed and
breakfast operations:

    1. The Bed and Breakfast must be owner-operated; it must be the principal residence of the


                                               58


    owner, and occupied by the owner, unless authorized differently as a conditional use
    by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
2. One (l) individual not residing in the Bed and Breakfast may be employed in its
    operation.
3. No more than four (4) rooms shall be offered for rent. The Board of Zoning Appeals
    may permit more rooms in Residential Zoning Districts which permit multi-family
    dwellings.
4. Each room rented shall contain a minimum of one-hundred (100) square feet. No rented
    room shall have independent outside entrance (emergency fire exits are permitted).
5. Neither any rented room nor the owner' s dwelling space shall be located in an accessory
    structure.
6. No cooking facilities of any type shall be permitted in the rented rooms.
7. A minimum of one (1) on-site parking space per room offered for rent, and two (2)
    spaces for the owners shall be required.
8. No changes to the outside appearance of the dwelling shall occur as a result of the
    operation of the bed and breakfast facility.
9. One (1) sign not exceeding four (4) square feet in area shall be permitted identifying the
    dwelling as a Bed and Breakfast.
10. Comply with all state and governmental requirements.
11. The owner shall notify the Zoning Inspector in wr iting of his intentions to use the
    structure in this manner each year.
12. Any other condition or safeguard deemed appropriate by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
13. If problems are created or result from the use of the dwelling as a Bed and Breakfast, or if
    the foregoi ng provisions shall have been violated by the owner thereof, the zoning permit
    may be revoked by the Zoning inspector after a review of the circumstances by the Zoning
    Board of Appeals.




                                           59


                      ARTICLE XVIII - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT

Section 1801 Purpose and Intent:
   A. In enacting this Ordinance, pursuant to Sections 503.51 and 503.52 of the Ohio Revised
       Code, the Paris Township Board of Trustees makes the following statement of intent and
       findings:
           I. Adult ente1iainment establishments require special supervision from the public
               safety agencies of Paris Township in order to protect and preserve the health ,
               safety and welfare of the patrons and employees of the businesses as well as the
               citizens of this Township.
           2. The Paris Township Board of Trustees finds that adult entertainment
               establishments are frequently used for unlawful sexual activities, including
               prostitution and sexual liaisons of a casual nature.
           3. The concern over sexually transmitted diseases is a legitimate health concern of
               Paris Township that demands reasonable regulation of adult ente1iainment
               establishments by this Township in the specified manner and expanded authority
               for reasonable regulation of adult entertainment establishments by local
               governments, in order to protect the health and well-being of the citizens.
           4. Minimal regulations enacted by Paris Township are a legitimate and reasonable
               means of accountability to ensure that operators of adult entertainment
               establishments comply with reasonable regulations and to ensure that operators
               do not knowingly allow their establishments to be used as places of illegal sexual
              activity or solicitation.
           5. There is convincing documented evidence that adult entertainment establishments,
               because of their very nature, have a deleterious effect on both the existing
               businesses around them and the surrounding residential areas adjacent to them,
              cause increased crime, particularly in the overnight hours, and downgrade
               property values.
           6. The Paris Township Board of Trustees desires to minimize and control these
               adverse effects by regulating adult ente1iainment establishments in the specified
               manner. And by minimizing and controlling these adverse effects, the Paris Board
              of Trustees seeks to protect the health , safety, and welfare of the citizenry;
               protect the citizens from increased crime; preserve the quality of life; preserve
              the property values and character of surrounding neighborhoods; and deter the
               spread of urban blight.
           7. The Paris Township Board of Trustees has determined that current local zoning
               and other locational criteria do not adequately protect the health, safety, and
               general welfare of the people of Paris Township and that expanded regulation of
               adult entertainment establishments is necessary .
           8. It is not the intent of the Paris Township Board of Trustees in enacting this act to
               suppress or authorize the suppression of any speech activities protected by the
               First Amendment, but to enact content-neutral statutes that address the secondary
               effects of adult entertainment establishments.
           9. It is not the intent of the Paris Township Board of Trustees to condone or
               legitimize the distribution of obscene material , and the Board of Trustees
               recognizes that state and federal law prohibits the distribution of obscene


                                              60


                materials and expects and encourages state law enforcement officials to enforce
                state obscenity statutes against any such illegal activities in this state.
    B. It is the intent of the Paris Township Board of Trustees in enacting this Ordinance to
       regulate in the specified manner adult entertainment establishments in order to promote
       the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of Paris Township and
       establish reasonable regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of adult
       entertainment establishments within Paris Township. The provisions of this Ordinance
       have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content
       of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is
       not the intent of the Paris Board of Trustees in enacting this Ordinance to restrict or deny,
       or authorize the restriction or denial of, access by adults to sexually oriented materials
       protected by the First Amendment, or to deny, or authorize the denial of, access by the
       distributors and exhibitors of adult entertainment and adult materials to their intended
       market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of the Paris Board of Trustees in enacting this
       Ordinance to condone or legitimize the distribution or exhibition of obscene material.

Section 1802 - Permitted Adult Entertainment Establishments:
Adult Entertainment Establishments, with the exception of "touching businesses" , are conditional
uses, conditionally permitted in the M-2 Manufacturing District provided:
   a. Adult entertainment establishments shall not be permitted within 1500 feet (measured
        from the closest property line of each use) of:
             1. A religious institution
             11. A kindergarten -12 th grade school or teaching facility , whether public or private,
                  governmental or commercial which is attended by persons under eighteen (18)
                  years of age
             iii. A park, playground, or recreational facility attended by persons under eighteen
                  (18) years of age
            1v . Any residence
            v. The boundary of any residential zoning district
            vi. A library
            vii. A day care center
           viii. Another adult entertainment establishment
   b. Only one adult entertainment establishment (i.e. adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
        cabaret, adult motion picture theater, adult theater, lingerie modeling studio, nude or
        seminude model studio, or sexual encounter establishment) is permitted in a single
        building. No co- location of adult entertainment establishments is permitted within one
        building. It is not permissible to co-locate an adult bookstore with an adult theater, for
        example.
   c. Hard core material is not displayed publicly, as defined in the Definitions section of this
        Resolution.
   d. No adult entertainment establishment shall be open for business prior to I 0:00 a.m. or
        later than 11 :00 p.m.
   e. Viewing booths shall not be used in conjunction with any "touching business" that results
        in the touching of clients by employees or employees by clients.
   f. Adult entertainment stores that sell both mainstream media and hard core material shall
        physically and visually separate hard core material from main stream media using the


                                               61


       standards in Section 1804.

Section 1803 - Prohibited Adult Entertainment Establishments:
"Touching businesses" such as non-therapeutic massage, lap dancing, and nude modeling that
involves employee-client contact are prohibited.

Section 1804 - General Conditions for Adult Entertainment Facilities Use:
   a. No advertisements, displays, or other promotional materials shall be shown or exhibited
       so as to be visible to the public from pedestrian sidewalks or walkways, or from other
       areas public or semi-public.
   b. All building openings, entries, windows, etc. for adult uses shall be located , covered, or
       serviced in such a manner as to prevent a view into the interior from any public or semi-
       public area, sidewalk, or street. For new construction, the building shall be oriented so as
       to minimize any possibility of viewing the interior from public or semi-public areas.
   c. No screens, loudspeakers, or sound equipment shall be used for adult motion picture
       theatres (enclosed or drive-in) that can be seen or discerned by the public from public or
       semi - public areas.
   d. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the standards enumerated in the
       parking provisions of this Regulation.

Section 1805 - Mainstream Shops Also Selling Adult Material:
Mainstream media shops or stores that have a maximum of IO percent of their gross floor area
devoted to hard core material sha ll be conditional uses in B-2 Local Business District and M-2
Manufacturing District, provided:
   a. Hard core material shall be physically and visually separated from main stream media,
       and shall not be displayed publicly, unless displayed in an area described in subsection 4
       of this section.
   b. Separation shall be by a solid opaque-walled enclosure at least eight feet high or reaching
       to the ceiling.
   c. Inventory marketed to and predominantly consumed by minors shall not be displayed
       within 15 feet of the entrance to the hard core material section .
   d. Access to the hard core material section shall be controlled by electronic or other means
       to provide assurance that a person under age 18 wi 11 not obtain access, and the general
       public will not accidentally enter this section.
           1.     The hard core material section shall provide signage at its entrance warning that
                  persons under the age of 18 are not permitted inside.
            ii . No adult arcades are permitted in mainstream media stores.
            iii . No more than one designated area for sexually oriented merchandise per store.
            iv. There shall be no exterior signs that advertise hard core or XXX rated media.




                                               62


                        ARTICLE XIX - INTERPRETATION & DEFINITIONS

Section 1900 - Interpretation of Terms or Words:
For the purpose of this Resolution , certain terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
    1. The word " person" includes a firm , association, organization , partnership, trust, company,
        or corporation as well as an individual.
    2. The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number includes the plural, and
        the plural number includes the singular.
    3. The word " shall" is a mandatory requirement, the word " may" is a permissive
        requirement, and the word "should" is a preferred requirement.
    4. The words " used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, designed , or arranged to be
        used or occupied".
    5. The word " lot" includes the words "plot" or "parcel"

Section 1901- Definitions:
Access Management - The process of providing and managing access to land development while
preserving the regional flow of traffic in terms of safety, capacity, and speed; refer to Union County
Access Management Regulations.

Accessory Use or Structure - A use or structure on the same lot with, and or a nature customarily
incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or structure.

Addition -Any construction that increases the size of a building or structure in terms of site coverage,
height, length, width, or gross floor area.

Adult-Oriented Business - An establishment having as its primary stock and trade material that is
distinguished or characterized by its emphasi s on sexually oriented material.

Adult - An individual eighteen years of age or older.

Adult arcade - Any place to which the public is permitted or invited in which coin-operated, slug-
operated, or electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, or other image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon matter exh ibiting or describing specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.

Adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video store - A commercial establishment that, for any form
of consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock- in-trade in, derives a significant or
substantial portion of its revenues from , devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior busi ness
or advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or displ ay space for the sale or rental of
any of the following:
    a. Hard core material.
    b . Adult novelties, instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use or
         marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for sadomasochistic use or
        abuse of self or others .

Adult cabaret - means a ni ghtcl ub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or simi lar commercial
establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, that regularly features any of the following:


                                                     63


    a.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
    b.   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas or
         specified sexual activities ;
    c.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions,
         which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or
         description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.

Adult entertainment- The sale, rental , or exhibition, for any form of consideration, of books, films , video
cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the
exposure or display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.

Adult entertainment establishment or Sexually Oriented Business -An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, adult theater, lingerie
modeling studio, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual encounter establishment. An establishment in
which a medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the
state engages in medically approved and recognized therapy , including, but not limited to, massage
therapy, as regulated pursuant to section 4731.15 of the Revised Code, is not an "adult entertainment
establishment."

Adult motion picture theater - A commercial establishment where films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, or similar photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis
upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly
shown for any form of consideration .

Adult theater-A theater, concert hall , auditorium , or similar commercial establishment that, for any form
of consideration, regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities .

Agricultural building-A structure on agricultural land designed, constructed, and used to house farm
implements, livestock, or agricultural produce or products used by the owner, lessee, or sub-lessee or their
immediate families , their employees, and persons engaged in the pickup or delivery of agricultural
produce or products grown or raised on the premises.

Agriculture - "Agriculture" includes farming; ranching; aquaculture; apiculture; horticulture; viticulture;
animal husbandry ; including, but not limited to , the care and raising of livestock, equine, and furbearing
livestock; poultry husbandry; and the production of poultry and poultry products; dairy production ; the
production of field crops, tobacco, fruits , vegetables, nursery stock, ornamental shrubs, ornamental trees,
flowers , sod, or mushroom s; timber, pasturage; any combination of the foregoing; the processing, drying,
storage, and marketing of agricultural products when those activities are conducted in conjunction with,
but secondary to, such husbandry or production.


Agritourism related definitions:
   a. Agricultural Production - Pursuant to ORC 901.80 and 929.01 , as amended or replaced from time
        to time, "agricultural production" means commercial aquaculture, algaculture meaning the
        farming of algae, api culture, anim al husbandry, or poultry husbandry; the production for a
        commercial purpose of timber, field crops, tobacco, fruits , vegetables, nursery stock, ornamental
        shrubs, ornamental trees, flowers, or sod ; the growth of timber for a noncommercial purpose if
        the land on which the timber is grown is conti guous to or part of a parcel of land under common


                                                   64


       ownership that is otherwise devoted exclusively to agricultural use; or any combination of such
       husbandry , production, or growth. "Agricultural production" includes conservation practices,
       provided that the tracts, lots, or parcels of land or port ions thereof that are used for conservation
       practices comprise not more than twenty-five per cent of tracts, lots, or parcels of land that are
       otherwise devoted exclusively to agricultural use and for which an application is filed under
       Section 929.02 of the Revised Code.
    b. Agritourism - Pursuant to ORC 901.80 as amended or replaced from time to time, "Agritourism"
       means an agricu ltu rally related educational, entertainment, historical, cultural, or recreational
       activity , including you-pick operations or farm markets, conducted on a Farm that all ows or
       invites members of the general public to observe, participate in, or enjoy that activity.
    c. Agrito uri sm Provider - Pursuant to ORC 901 .80, as amended or replaced from time to time,
       "Agritourism provider" means a person who owns, operates, provides, or sponsors an agritourism
       activity or an employee of such a person who engages in or provides agritourism activities
       whether or not for a fee.
    d. Farm - Pursuant to ORC 901 .80 as amended or replaced from time to time, "Farm " means land
       that is composed of tracts, lots, or parcels totaling not less than ten (10) acres devoted to
       agric ultural production or totaling less than ten (10) acres devoted to agricu ltu ral production if the
       land produces an average yearly gross income of at least twenty-five hundred dollars ($2,500)
       from agricultural production.

All ey - Any public way or thoroughfare less than twenty (20) feet in width which is located at the back or
side of properties abutti ng on another street. Alleys may be public or private.

A lterat ions, Structural - see " Structural Alterations.

Anemometer - An instrument that measures the force and direction of the wind. Ani mal Feed Lot- A lot,
yard , corral, or other area in which livestock are confined,
primarily for the purposes of feeding. The term does not include areas which are used for raising crops or
other vegetation or upon which livestock are allowed to graze.

Apartment - One or more rooms in a dwelling designed and intended for occupancy as a separate dwelling
unit.

Architectural Development Plan (ADP) - A conceptual plan of a proposed land development, together
with written materials, showing the general character and layout of the development parcel including the
approximate location and density/ intensity of uses, the approxim ate location of parks and open space, the
location of existi ng and proposed streets and alleys, and the relationship of the development to adjacent
areas that it may affect.

Automotive Repair - The repair, rebui lding or reconditioning of motor vehicles or parts thereof, includ ing
col li sion services, painting and steam cleaning of vehicles.

Automotive Vehicle - A vehicle which is designed and manufactured to be se lf- propelling or self-
moving upon the public highway. More specifically, as referred to in this Resolution , it includes:
automobiles, trucks, tractors and motorcycles or any vehicle licensed for highway use.

"A-Weighted" Sound Level -The sound pressure level in decibe ls as measured on a sound level meter
using the A-weighted network. The level so read is designated dB(A) or dBA .

Basement- A story all or partly underground but having a least one-half of its height below the average
level of the adjoining ground.

                                                       65


Battery Energy Storage System, Small Off-Site - A principal use that is designed and built to connect into
the distribution or transmission grid with a nameplate capacity less than fifty (50) megawatts (MW). This
type of system is capable of absorbing, storing, and/or discharging electrical energy from/to the grid or a
power plant(s).

Bed and Breakfast - An owner-occupied, single-family residential dwelling in which rooms are rented to
paying guests on an over-night basis and breakfast only is provided; the entire service to be included in
one ( 1) stated price. Al I other perm its and requirements of any other agency of department must be met.

Bike paths- Those paved portions of a street between curb lines, or the lateral lines of a roadway , and the
adjacent property lines or separately paved travelways/paths through park lands, city owned property
and/or easements intended for the use of pedestrians and bicycles.

Billboard - see "Sign-Outdoor advertising off-premises" .

Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) - The Board of Zoning Appeals of Paris Township, Union County, Ohio.

Breezeway -A roofed structure, with or without enclosing walls, connecting an accessory structure to the
principal building.

Buffer - A strip of land, fence, or border of trees between one use and another that may or may not have
trees and shrubs planted for screening purposes, designed to set apart one use area from another.

Bui !ding - Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons,
animals, chattels, or property.

Building, Accessory -A subordinate building detached from, but located on the same lot as the principal
building, the use of which is incidental and accessory to that of the main building or use.

Building Height - The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the proposed finished
grade at the front of the building to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard
roof, and the mean height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs. Where a building is
located on sloping terrain , the height may be measured from the average ground level of the grade at the
building wall.

Building Line - See setback line

Building, Manufactured -A manufactured building has the following features or characteristics: It is ( 1)
mass produced in a factory; (2) designed and constructed for transportation to site with or without a
chassis for installation and use when connected to required utilities; (3) either an independent, individual
factory erected building or a modul e with two or more sides erected at the factory, for comb ination with
other elements to form a building on the site.

Building, Principal -A building in which is conducted the main or principal use of the lot on which said
building is situated.

Business. Convenience-Type Retail - A retail business whose market area is the neighborhood or part of
the community, which provides convenience-type goods and personal services for the daily needs of the
people within the residenti al area. Uses include, but are not be limited to, drugstores, beauty salons, barber
shops, carry-outs, dry clean ing and laundry facilities, supermarkets, etc.

                                                    66


Business, Drive-in -Any business, structure or premise which is designed primarily to serve occupants of
motor vehicles without the occupants having to leave the vehicle.

Business, Service - Any profit making activity which renders primarily services to the public or to other
commercial or industrial enterprises. Some retail sales may be involved in connection with the service
rendered.

Business, Shopping-Type Retail -A retail or service business which supplies a wide variety of
comparison goods and services to consumers in a market area that includes the community or an area
greater than a community . Examples of shopping-type businesses are furniture stores, automobile sales
and services, craft shops, gift shops or clothing shops.

Business Operations - Business operations are any activities that take place in connection with the day-to-
day operation of or activities associated with an ongoing business concern, whether for profit or in kind
payment. The lack of a visiting customer base or clientele shall not exempt a property owner from the
definition of business operations.

Campground. Commercial or Private -An area of land providing space for or containing two (2) or more
recreational vehicles, cabins, camping tents, or other similar type of shelter designed for the seasonal,
recreational use of transients.

Cemetery - Land used or intended to be used for the burial of animal or human dead and dedicated for
cemetery purposes including crematories, mausoleums, and mortuaries if operated in connection with and
within the boundaries of such cemetery.

Certificate of compliance - A document issued by the Zoning Inspector authorizing the occupancy or use
of a building, structure, or the use of lots or land, indicating compliance with the Paris Township Zoning
Resolution.

Character - Those attributes , qualities, and features that make up, distinguish a development project, and
give such project a sense of purpose, function, definition, and uniqueness.

Chassis - The steel undercarriage, supporting framework to which a dwelling is permanently attached.

Child Day Care Facility -A home or facility for the care and treatment of babies and/or children.

Church - a fellowship of believers, congregation, society, corporation, convention, or association that is
formed primarily or exclusively for religious purposes and that is not formed for the private profit of any
person.

Church property - means property that is described as being exempt from taxation under division (A)(2) of
section 5709.07 of the Revised Code and that the county auditor has entered on the exempt list compiled
under section 5713.07 of the Revised Code.

Clean fill - Soil brought in to fill low areas or other depressions in the earth. Clean fill is free from
hazardous substances, large stones, metals, plastics, asphalt, concrete and other debris, waste or junk.

C lear Fall Zone- An area surrounding a structure into which the structure and or its components might fall
due to inclement weather, poor maintenance, faulty construction methods, or any other condition causing
the structure' s failure that shall remain unobstructed and confined within the property lines of the primary

                                                    67


parcel where the structure is located, the purpose being that if the structure should fall or otherwise
become damaged, the falling structure will be confined to the primary parcel and will not fall onto
dwellings, accessory buildings, and will not intrude onto a neighboring property.

Clinic - A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing, infirm , or injured persons, and
those who are in need of medical and surgical attention, but who are not provided with board or room or
kept overnight on the premises.

Club- A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by a person for a social , literary,
political, educational , fraternal or recreational purpose primarily for the exclusive use of members and
their guests.

"Commercial car" or "truck" - means any motor vehicle that has motor power and is designed and used
for carrying merchandise or freight, or that is used as a commercial tractor.

"Commercial tractor," - except as defined in O.R.C. § 4501.0l(C), means any motor vehicle that has
motive power and either is designed or used for drawing other motor vehicles, or is designed or used for
drawing another motor vehicle while carrying a portion of the other motor vehicle or its load, or both.

Common Access Drive -A common access driveway (CAD) is a privately constructed, privately owned,
and privately maintained driveway located within an ingress/egress easement serving more than one lot
(or parcel) but not more than five lots (or parcels) installed in accordance with the requirements of the
Union County Engineer.

Compatible or Compatibility - The characteristics of different uses, activities or design which allow them
to be located near or adjacent to each other in harmony. Some elements affecting compatibility include
height, scale, mass, and bulk of structures. Other characteristics that affect compatibility are landscaping,
lighting, noise, odor, and architecture. Compatibility does not mean "the same as," but rather,
compatibility refers to the sensitivity of development proposals in maintaining the character of existing
development.

Comprehensive Development Plan or Comprehensive Land Use Growth Plan - A plan, or any portion
thereof, adopted by the Regional Planning Commission, the Board of County Commissioners, and/or The
Board of Township Trustees, showing the general location and extent of present and proposed physical
facilities including housing, industrial , and commercial uses, major thoroughfares, parks, schools, and
other community facilities. This plan established the goals, objectives, and policies of the community.

Conditional Use -A use pennitted within a district other than a principally permitted use, requiring a
conditional use pennit and approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
Conditional uses permitted in each district are Iisted in the Official Schedule of District Regulations.

Conditional Use Penn it-A permit issued by the Zoning Inspector upon approval by the Board of Zoning
Appeals to allow a use specifically designated as a conditional use delineated in the Official Schedule of
District Regulations.

Conservation subdivision- a conservation subdivision is defined as a subdivision designed to permanently
preserve and integrate open space within residential developments; offer landowners alternatives to
standard tract development of their land; establish a less sprawling, more efficient use of land, streets and
utilities; preserve natural topography in wooded areas; create usable and accessible open space,
recreational areas, and green corridors for wildlife, walking trails and/or bike paths; and encourage
creativity in design through a controlled process of review and approval of the development plan and

                                                    68


related documents. The minimum development size for a conservation subdivision shall be 40 acres.

Construction -Any site preparation, assembly , erection, substantial repair, alteration, demolition , or
similar action.

Construction Trailer -A temporary building or trailer used in conjunction with construction work that
only may be permitted in any district during the period the construction work is in progress, but shall be
removed upon completion of the construction work. A construction trailer shall not be used as a
residential dwelling or for storage on a residential prope1iy following completion of construction.

Continuous Sound - A sound, the intensity of which remains essentially constant during a given period of
time. Continuous sound shall be measured by the slow response setting of a sound level meter.

Connectivity- T he ability to be linked between areas, through vehicu lar and pedestrian transportation
systems, including adjacent and proposed residential neighborhoods and schools, parks, trails, shopping
and emp loyment areas.

Conventional Built-See " Stick Built" . Corner Lot - See Lot Types .

Cowling - A stream lined removable cover that encloses the turbine ' s nacelle.

Computerized sweepstakes device - means any computer, machine, game or apparatus which upon the
insertion of a coin, token, access number, magnetic card or similar object or upon the payment of anything
of value, may be operated by the public generally for use as a contest of skill , entertainment or
amusement, whether or not registering a score and which provides the user with a chance to win anything
of value that is not de minimis on a per play basis or any cash payout or anything that could be redeemed,
directly or indirectly, for any cash payout and which is not gambling under state or local laws.
Machines designated for use by the State Lottery Commission are not computerized sweepstakes devices
fo r purposes ofthi s Chapter. "De minimis" as used in this section shall mean less than ten ($10 .00)
Dollars.

Data Center - An estab li shment engaging in the storage, management, processing, and/or transmission of
digital data, and housing computer and/or network equipment, systems, servers, appliances, and other
associated components related to digital data operations.

DBA - "Decibel-A-Weighted" - Sound pressure level as measured on the "A" scale of a sound level meter
manufactured in accordance with the specifications of the American National Standards Institute, Inc.
(ANSI), Type 2, ANSI-Sl.4(1971), calibrated within two (2) hours of being used for measurement.
Unless otherwise noted, measurements shall be made in the slow response mode of the meter.

Decibel-A unit of relative loudness equal to ten times the common logarithm of the ratio oftwo
readings. For sound, the decibel scale runs from zero for the least perceptible sound to 130 for the sound
that causes pain.

Deed Restriction -A legal restriction, not enforceable by zoning, on the use of land, contained in the deed
to the property.

Density - A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of land . Density, Gross - The
number of dwelling units per acre of the total land to be developed.

Densitv. Net- the number of dwelling units per acre of land when the acreage involved includes only the

                                                    69


land devoted to residential uses . Net density calcul ations exclude rights- of-way of publicl y dedicated
streets, private streets, water retention and detention areas, open space provided as a part of the
development, associated recreation facilities, etc.

Decibel (dB) -A unit of sound pressure, equal to twenty (20) times the logarithm to the base 10 of the
ratio of the pressure of the sound measured to the reference pressure, which is 20 micro-pascals (20
micro-newtons per square meter).

Display publicly-The act of expos ing, placing, posting, exhibiting, or in any fashion displaying in any
location, whether public or private, an item in such a manner that it may be readily seen and its content or
character distinguished by normal unaided vision viewing it from a street, highway , or public sidewalk, or
from the property of others, or from any portion of the premises where items and material other than hard
core material are on display to the public.

Dormer - A windowed wall area flanked on both sides by sloping roof areas.

Driveway - Any road or path, shared or singular, giving ingress or egress to a lot.

Dwelling-Any building or structure which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used for living or
sleeping by one or more human occupants.

Dwelling, Manufactured Housing 1 -A manufactured building or portion of a building designed for long-
term residential use. This category includes, but is not limited to the following:
    a.   Modular Un it - A factory -fabricated transportable building designed to be used by itself
         or to be incorporated with similar units at a building site. The term is intended to app ly to
         major assemblies and does not include prefabricated panels, trusses, plumbing trees, and
         other prefabricated sub-elements which are to be incorporated into a structure at the site.
    b.   Sectional Unit -A dwelling made of two or more modular units transported to the home
         site, put on a foundation , and joined to make a single dwelling.
    c.   Manufactured Home/Mobile Home - Manufactured housing built on a chassis. A mobile
         home shall be construed to remain a mobile home, subject to all regulations app lying
         thereto, even when wheels, axles, hitch, or other appurtenances of mobility are removed
         and regardless of the nature of the foundation provided. A mobile home shall not be
         construed to be a travel trailer or other form of recreational vehicle.
    d.   Manufactured Home, Double-Wide or Triple-Wide - A mobile home consisting
         respectively of two or three sections combined horizontally at the site to form a si ngle
         dwelling, while still retaining their individual chass is for possible future movement.
    e.   Manufactured Home, Expandable-A mobile home with one or more room sections that
         fo ld , collapse, or telescope into the principal unit when being transported and which can
         be expanded at the site to provide additional living area.


1
  Footnote No. 1: Statement of Intent for Dwelling, Manufactured Housing Definition: Because terms fo r
manufactured housing such as those listed in the above definition titled "Dwelling, Manufactured
Housing" tend to change over the years, the purpose and intent of the definition is to draw a distinction
between dwellings that are produced and erected in assembly line style at the factory, ji·om those stick-
built dwellings (see definition of Stick-Built) in which a substantial amount of material and construction
labor are brought together in final form at the fo undation site. The above explanation is the spirit in
which any future interpretation shall be made f rom this section, no matter what terms for manufactured


                                                    70


housing are in vogue at any given time.

Manufactured Housing does not include the sub-assembly methods of construction known as " pre-fab " or
pre-cut, in which cases some portion of the preparation or sub- assembly may be done at the factory but
not erected until at the foundation site.

Dwelling, Multi-Family -A dwelling or group of dwellings on one lot containing separate living units for
two or more families, having separate or joint entrances, and including apartments, group homes, row
houses, and condominiums.

Dwelling, Permanently Sited Manufactured Housing - A manufactured home that meets all of the criteria
set forth in this Resolution.

Dwelling, Single Family - A detached residential dwelling or housing unit other than a mobile home,
designed for and occupied by one family only, including permanently-sited manufactured housing,
modular homes, and industrialized units.

Dwelling Unit- Space, within a dwelling, comprising living, dining, sleeping room or rooms, storage
closets, as well as space and equipment for cooking, bathing, and toilet facilities , all used by only one
family and its household employees.

Dwelling, Room House (Boarding House, Lodging House, Dormitory)-A dwelling or part thereof, other
than a hote l, motel or restaurant where meals and/or lodging are provided for compensation, for three or
more unrelated persons where no cooking or dining facilities are provided in the individual rooms.

Easement - Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for a specified purpose, of any
designed part of his property .

Eave - The projecting edges of a roof overhanging the wall of a building.

Emergency -Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or imminent physical trauma or
property damage which demands immediate action.

Emergency Signal Device -Any audible or visual warning device, such as a gong, whistle or siren or any
air horn or any similar device.

Emergency Work - Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or alleviating the physical trauma
or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency.

Essential Services - The erection, construction, alteration , or maintenance, by public utilities or municipal
or other governmental agencies, of underground gas, electrical , water transmission, or distribution
systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems or sites, including poles, wires, mains,
drains, sewers, pipes, traffic signals, hydrants, or other similar equ ipment and accessories in connection
therewith which are reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or
municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public health or safety or general welfare, but not
including buildings.

Establishment - Any business regulated by thi s Resolution.

Family - One or more rel ated persons occupy ing a single dwelling unit. Farm - See Section 57 13.30(A) of
the Ohio Revised Code.

                                                    71


Farm Market - A building, structure or portable facility designed or used or intended to be used for the
display and / or sale of produce, the majority of which is raised on farms owned or operated by the farm
market operator.

Farm Pond - A body of water, smaller than a lake (less than 5 acres), located on a farm.

Fence - An artificially constructed barrier of wood, masonry, stone, wire, metal , vinyl , or other
manufactured material or com bi nation of materials erected to enclose, screen, or separate areas.

Fence, barbed wire - One or more strands of wire or other material having intermittent sharp points of
wire or metal that may puncture, cut, tear, or snag persons, clothing, or animals . The term "barbed wire"
as used herein excludes razor ribbon.

Fence, chain link -An open mesh fence made entirely of wire woven in squares of approximately 1.5
inches with vertical supports not less than 1.5 inches in diameter spaced not less than six feet, and not
more than eight feet, apart.

Fence, decorative - A designed open or solid fence or wall that meets all of the following:
   a. It contributes to the identification and beauty of the principal use;
   b. It is not erected to satisfy any other provision of this code;
   c. It does not act as a retaining structure;
   d. It is not a privacy or stockade fence.

Fence, partition - A fence that is located on the division line between the adjoining prope1ties of two
owners. "Paitition fence" includes a fence that has been considered a division line between two such
properties even though a subsequent land survey indicates that the fence is not located directly on the
division line.

Fence, Preferred partition - Means a partition fence that is a woven wire fence, either standard or high
tens il e, with one or two strands of barbed wire located not less than forty-eight inches from the ground or
a nonelectric high tensile fence of at least seven strands and that is constructed in accordance with the
Un ited States natural resources conservation service conservation practice standard for fences , code 382.
" Preferred partition fence " includes a barbed wire, electric, or live fence, provided that the owners of
adjoining properties agree, in writing, to allow such fences.

Fence, privacy- A fence no more than six feet in height intended to inhibit public view and provide
seclusion. When viewed at right angles has less than sixty-six percent (66%) of its area open to light and
air. Examples of privacy fences include but are not limited to:
     a. Basket weave or woven fences - Made of interwoven strips or slats of flexible material in
        which the pattern has the appearance of a "basket weave".
     b. Louver or ventilating fences - Made of a series of slats placed at an angle or positioned
        so as to provide air but to deflect light perpendicular to its plane.
     c. Board on board fence - A fence made of ve1iical wood planks suppo1ied by horizontal
        framing with the vertical planks usually mounted on alternating sides of the framing. The
        planks may or may not be placed with a space between .
     d. Stockade Fence - A fence made of board on board construction using rounded vertical
        planks with sharpened tops. The planks are usually placed with no space between .

Fence, temporary - Fences erected for a specific function and limited time duration.

                                                   72


Fenestration -The design, proportioning and arrangement of windows and other exterior
openings of a building.

Flood Plain - That land, including the flood fringe and the flood way subject to inundation by the
regional flood.

Floor Area Of A Residential Building, Usable - The sum of the gross horizontal area of the
several floors of a residential building, excluding basement floor areas not devoted to residential
use and attached garages, but including the area of roofed porches and roofed terraces. All
dimensions shall be measured between interior faces of walls.

Floor, Area of a Non Residential Building (to be used in calculating parking requirements) - The
floor area of the specified use excluding stairs, washrooms, elevator shafts, maintenance shafts
and rooms.

Floor Area, Livable - The livable floor area in square feet of existing or proposed buildings or
structures or additions thereto shall be computed by multiplying the outside horizontal
dimensions with each floor of the livable area. Porches, carports, and similar structures shall not
be considered in computing the total livable area.

Food Processing- The preparation, storage, or processing of food products; examples of these
activities include bakeries, dairies, canneries, meat processing plants, and similar activities.

Forestry - The propagation and harvesting of forest trees.

Foundation, Permanent - A permanent perimeter masonry, concrete, or a locally approved
footing or foundation to which a dwelling will be attached.

Front facade - The exterior wall(s) of the principal residential building that faces the street from
which the building takes access or is addressed . Where the front fa<;:ade includes walls with
different setbacks, that portion of a wall that is closest to the front of the lot, exclusive of garage
walls, shall be the point used to determine the front fac;:ade.

Garage, front loaded - A private residential garage that is accessed from a street other than an
alley. A front-loaded garage may face the street (garage doors parallel to the street) or may turn
its side to the street (garage doors perpendicular to the street, sometimes referred to as a "side-
loaded" garage) .

Gasoline Service Station - Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil , grease, batteries, tires,
and automobile accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail.

Gross public floor area-The total area of the building accessible or visible to the public,
including showrooms, motion picture theaters, motion picture arcades, service areas, behind-
counter areas, storage areas visible from such other areas, restrooms (whether or not labeled
public), stage areas, aisles, hallways and entryways.


                                                 73


Ground floor area - The total area displaced by the principal building exclusive of the porch or
garage.

Group home or Residential Care Facility - Any facility in which not more than eight (8) persons
are provided with room, board, specialized care, rehabilitative services and supervision in a
family environment. All such facilities shall possess all approvals and/or licenses as required by
state or local agencies. In addition to all other conditions deemed necessary, the following
conditions shall be imposed by the Board of Zoning Appeals:
    a. The facility shall comply with all Development Standards contained in this Resolution ;
    b. No exterior alterations of the structure shall be made which depa11 from the residential
        character of the building. All new structures shall be compatible in residential design with
        the surrounding neighborhood;
    c. No Group Home or Residential Care Facility shall be located within a one mile radius of
        another such facility.

Hard core material - Media characterized by sexual activity that includes one or more of the
following: erect male organ ; contact of the mouth of one person with the genitals of another;
penetration with a finger or male organ into any orifice in another person; open female labia;
penetration of a sex toy into an orifice; male ejaculation; or the aftermath of male ejaculation.

Hazardous Materials - Means those substances which, singly or in combination, pose a significant
present or potential threat or hazard to human health or to the environment, and which, singly or
in combination , require special handling, processing, or disposal, because they are or may be
flammable, explosive, reactive, corrosive, toxic, infectious, carcinogenic, bioconcentrative, or
persistent in nature, potentially lethal , or an irritant or strong sensitizer.

Home Occupation - Any occupation conducted in a dwelling unit, provided that: no more than
one person other than members of the family residing on the premises shall be engaged in such
occupation. The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be clearly incidental and
subordinate to its use for residential purposes by the occupants, and not more than ten percent of
the total floor area of the dwelling unit, including the garage and basement areas, shall be used in
conducting the home occupation. There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the
building or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation other
than one sign , not exceeding four square feet in area, non-illuminated and mounted flat against
the wall of the principal building. No traffic shall be generated by such occupation in area and
any need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall meet the off-street
parking requirements as specified in this Resolution.

Impulsive Sound - A sound of sho11 duration, usually less than one second , with an abrupt onset
and rapid decay. Examples of sources of impulsive sound include explosions, drop forge
impacts, and the di scharge of firearms.

Incinerator - A furnace of other device used for burning trash or unwanted items or material.

Intermediate wind energy proj ect - means a w ind energy project th at has a nameplate capacity of


                                               74


greater than 25 kilowatts but less than 5 megawatts and has a total height of 200 feet or less.

Junk - means old scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, trash, waste, batteries, paper, rubber, junked,
dismantled, or wrecked automobiles or parts thereof, iron, steel, and other old or scrap ferrous or
non ferrous materials.

Junk motor vehicle- the term junk motor vehicle shall have the same meaning as provided in
O.R.C. § 4513.63 .

Junk Yard - An establishment or place of business which is maintained or operated, or any other
land used, for the purpose of storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, or for the maintenance or
operation of an automobile graveyard. It shall also include scrap metal processing facilities
which are located within one thousand feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way of a highway
or street.

Juvenile - An unmarried person under the age of eighteen.

Kennel - Any lot or premise on which dogs, cats, or other household pets are boarded, bred, or
exchanged for monetary compensation.

Kilowatt - means a unit of power equal to 1000 watts.

Lake - A body of fresh water of considerable size, surrounded by land.

Landfill, Sanitary -A licensed land disposal site complying with O.R.C . § 3734 et seq employing
a method of disposing of solid wastes on land in a manner intended to minimize environmental
hazards by spreading the solid wastes in thin layers, compacting the solid wastes to the smallest
practical volume, and applying and compacting cover material daily.

Licensed professional massage studio -An establishment offering massage therapy and/or body
work by a massage therapist licensed under the Ohio Revised Code or under the direct
supervision of a licensed physician.

Lighting related definitions -
   a. Canopy structure: Any overhead protective structure which is constructed in such a
       manner as to allow pedestrians/vehicles to pass under.
   b. Fixture: The assembly that holds a lamp and may include an assembly housing, a
       mounting bracket or pole socket, a lamp holder, a ballast, a reflector or mirror, and a
       refractor or lens
   c. Foot-candle: A unit of illumination produced on a surface, all points of which are one foot
       from a uniform point source of one candle.
   d. Glare: Direct light emitted by a luminaire that causes reduced vision or momentary
       blindness.
   e. Lamp: The component of a luminaire that produces the light.
   f. Light direct: Light emitted directly by a lamp, off a reflector, or through a refractor of a
       luminaire.


                                               75


   g. Light pollution: General sky glow caused by the scattering of artificial light in the
      atmosphere, much of which is caused by poorly-designed luminaries.
   h. Light shield: Any attachment which interrupts and blocks the path of light emitted from a
      luminaire or fi xture.
   1. Light trespass: Light emitted by a luminaire that shines beyond the boundaries of the
      property on which the luminaire is located.
   J. Lumen: A unit of measurement of luminous flux.
   k. Luminaire: The complete lighting system , including the lamp and the fixture.
   I. Luminaire permanent outdoor: Any fixed luminaire or system of luminaries that is
      outdoors and this is intended to be used for seven (7) days or longer.
   m. Outdoor light fixtures: Outdoor artificial illuminating devices, installed or portable, used
      for floodlighting, general illumination, or advertisement.
   n. Roadway lighting: Permanent outdoor luminaries that are specifically intended to
      illuminate roadways for automotive vehicles.

Lingerie modeling studio - An establishment or business that provides the services of live models
modeling lingerie to individuals, couples, or small groups.

Litter - Garbage, trash, waste, rubbish , ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
automobile parts, tires, furniture , glass, paint or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary
nature thrown, dropped , discarded, placed , or deposited by a person on public property, private
prope1ty, or in or on waters of the state.

Live entertainment - On site entertainment by live entertainers that characterizes the
establishment, as determined (if necessary) from a pattern of advertising as well as actual
performances.

Loading Space, Off-Street - Space logically and conveniently located for bulk pickups and
deliveries, scaled to the delivery vehicles expected to be used and accessible to such vehicles
when required off-street parking spaces are filled. Required off-street loading space is not to be
included as off-street parking space in computation of required off- street parking space. All off-
street loading spaces shall be located totally outside of any street or alley right-of-way.

Lot -A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage,
and area for one principal building together with its accessory building and which provides such
yards and other open spaces as are herein requ ired. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved
public street, and may consist of: a single lot of record; a portion of a lot of record; a combination
of complete lots of record, of complete lots of record and portions of lots of record, or of portions
of lots of record .

Lot Coverage - The ratio of enclosed ground floor area of all buildings on a lot to the
horizontally projected area of the lot, expressed as a percentage.

Lot Frontage - The front of a lot shall be construed to be the po1tion at the street or road right-of
way line. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner lots and through lots, all
sides of a lot adjacent to streets or road right-of way lines shall be considered frontage, and yards


                                                76


shall be provided as indicated under " Yard" in this section. (Also see Lot Measurement, Width)

Lot, Minimum Area of- The area of a lot is computed exclusive of any portion of the right-of-
way of any public street or road .

Lot Measurements - A lot shall be measured as follows:

       Lot Depth - Where required, no lot under ten (10) acres shall have an average depth that
       is more than three (3) times its width measured at the road right-of-way line. No lot shall
       have a depth that is less than the required minimum lot frontage. For the purposes of this
       requirement, the average depth shall be the distance between the midpoint of a straight
       line connecting the foremost points of each side lot line at the front and the mid-point of a
       straight Iine connecting the rearmost points of the rear lot Iine.

       Lot Width - The distance between straight lines connecting front and rear lot lines at each
       side of the lot, measured at the street or road right of way line, except on cul -de-sac
       streets where it is measured at the setback line. (Also see Lot Frontage). Where required,
       for lots under ten ( I 0) acres, the actual distance between the side lot lines at any point
       along the lot depth cannot be less than one hundred (100%) percent of the required Lot
       Frontage. For lots containing ten (I 0) acres or more, said lot shall comply with road
       frontage requirements and the width may be reduced to no less than one hundred fifty
       (150) feet.

Lot of Record - A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of the County
Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so
recorded.

Lot Types - Terminology used in this Resolution with reference to corner lot, interior lots and
through lots is as follows:

Corner Lot - A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets. A lot abutting on a curved
street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if straight lines drawn from the foremost points
of the side lot lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than one
hundred thirty-five (135) degrees.

Interior Lot - A lot with only one frontage on a street

Through Lot - A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one street. Through lots
abutting two streets may be referred to as double frontage lots.

Reversed Frontage Lot - A lot on which frontage is at right angles to the general pattern in the
area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner lot.

Manufactured Home/Mobile Home - these units shall have the same meaning as set forth in ORC
§ 3781.06(C)(3) and (C)(4).



                                               77


Manufactured Home Park - Any site, or tract of land under single ownership, upon which three
or more mobile homes used for habitation are parked, either free of charge or for revenue
purposes; including any roadway, building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for
use as a part of the facilities of such park. Also referred to as "Mobile Home Park". The park
must comply in all respects with the provisions of O.R.C. § 4781.26 as amended.

Manufacturing, Heavy - Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, testing and similar
industrial uses which are generally major operations and extensive in character; require large
sites, open storage and service areas, extensive services and facilities , ready access to regional
transportation ; and normally generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, dust, glare, air
pollution, odor, but not beyond the district boundary to any large extent.

Manufacturing, Light - Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are usually controlled
operations; relatively clean, quiet, and free of objectionable or hazardous elements such as
smoke, noise, odor or dust; operating and storing within enclosed structures; and generating little
industrial traffic and no major nuisances.

Material, Adult - Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture, figure ,
image, description , motion picture film , phonographic record , or tape, or other tangible thing
capable of arousing interest through sight, sound or touch.

Mining, Commercial Quarries, Sand and Gravel Pits - Any mining, quarrying or processing of
limestone, clay, sand and gravel or other mineral resources. Also referred to as mineral
extraction.

Media - Anything printed or written, or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture, film ,
video, DVD , videotape or videotape production, or pictorial representation, or any electrical or
electronic reproduction of anything that is used or may be used as a means of communication.
Media includes but shall not necessarily be limited to books, newspapers, magazines, movies,
videos, sound recordings, CD-ROMs, other magnetic or digital media, and undeveloped pictures.

Media shop or store, mainstream - A general term , identifying a category of business that sells
and displays publicly various forms of media, at least 90% of which is not hard core material. A
maximum of 10 % of the products sold may constitute hard core material , provided that any hard
core materials are placed within an enclosed space, where entrance is limited to adult patrons
only and where the hard core material is not displayed publicly.

Megawatt-A unit of power equal to one million watts.
Met tower - means a tower, including any anchor, base, base plate, boom , cable, electrical or
electronic equipment, guy wire, hardware, indicator, instrument, telemetry device, vane, or
wiring, that is used to collect or transmit meteorological data, including wind speed and wind
flow information , in order to monitor or characterize wind resources at or near a small wind
energy project.

Mineral Extraction - Any mining, quarry ing, extraction or processing of natural gas, oil ,
limestone, clay, sand, gravel or other mineral resources .


                                                78


Mobile Home Park - See Manufactured Home Park

Mobile Source - Any moving sound source on a public right-of-way.

Motorcycle - Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and designed to travel
on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground , but excluding a trailer.

Motor Vehicle - means any vehicle, including mobile homes and recreational vehicles, that is
propelled or drawn by power other than muscular power or power collected from overhead
electric trolley wires. "Motor vehicle" does not include utility vehicles as defined in this
regulation, motorized bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels, power cranes, and
other equipment used in construction work and not designed for or employed in general highway
transportation, well-drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
that are designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a
marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a public road or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of twenty-five miles per hour or less.

Motor Vehicle Salvage Facility - Any establishment or place of business which is maintained,
used, or operated for buying or selling wrecked, scrapped, ruined, or dismantled motor vehicles
or motor vehicle parts.

Nacelle - the streamlined enclosure that sits atop the tower and contains the essential mechanical
components of the turbine to which the rotor is attached.

Noise - A sound of any kind.

Noise Disturbance - Any sound which (a) endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or
animals; or (b) annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities; or (c) endangers or
injures personal or real property ; or (d) exceeds the applicable maximum permissible sound
levels as they appear in the table in Section 1404 of this resolution .

Noise Sensitive Zone - Any area designated for the purpose of ensuring exceptional quiet and
shall include schools and churches while the same are in use, any hospital and any nursing home;
provided, that conspicuous signs are displayed on the exterior realty of any such school, church,
hospital or nursing home which clearly notifies a member of the general public of its use.
Non-Conformities - A building, structure or use of land existing at the time of enactment of this
Resolution and which does not conform to the regulations of the district or zone in which it is
situated.

Nude or seminude model studio -Any place where a person, who regularly appears in a state of
nudity or semi-nudity, is provided money or any other form of consideration, to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons.

Nudity, Nude or State of Nudity - The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or
female genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full , opaque covering, or of a female


                                              79


breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof below the top of the nipple, or
of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
A modeling class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to this
chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
    a. By a college or university supported entirely or patily by taxation ;
    b. By a private college or university that maintains and operates educational programs, the
        credits for which are transferable to a college or university supported entirely or partly by
        taxation;
    c. In a structure to which all of the following apply:
             1.   It has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no other advertising
                  indicating that a person appearing in a state of nudity or semi- nudity is available
                  for viewing.
             11. In order to participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
                  days in advance of the class.
             iii. Not more than one nude or seminude model is on the premises at any one time.

Nuisance - A building or property that is structurally unsafe, unsanitary, or not provided with
adequate safe egress; that constitutes a fire hazard, is otherwise dangerous to human life, or is
otherwise no longer fit and habitable; or that, in relation to its existing use, constitutes a hazard
to the public health, welfare, or safety by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation ,
obsolescence, or abandonment. A nuisance could constitute an offensive activity on a property
that reduces the property value of neighboring properties or results in a lessening of normal use
and enjoyment to neighboring properties.
Examples include, noise, junk, automobile storage, accumulation of rodents and/or insects or
mosquitoes, rubbish , refuse, and debris.

Nursery, Tree & Plant - A place where young trees or other plants are raised for transplanting
and/or for sale.

Nursing Home-A home or facility for the care and treatment of pensioners or elderly people.

Offices - A place in which business, clerical or professional activities are conducted. Office
business generally accommodates such occupations as administrative, executive, professional ,
accounting, clerical, drafting, etc. Institutional offices of a charitable, philanthropic, financial or
religious or educational nature are also included in this classification.

Open Space - An area substantially open to the sky which may be on the same lot with a
building. The area may include, along with the natural environmental features , water areas,
swimming pools and tennis courts, and other recreational facilities that the Zoning Commission
deems permissive. Streets, parking areas, structures for habitation, and the like shall not be
included.

Orchards - An area of land devoted to the cultivation and sale of fruit trees and the sale of the
fruit there from .

Parking Space, Off-Street - For the purpose of this Resolution, an off-street parking space shall


                                                  80


consist of an area adequate for parking an automob ile with room for opening doors on both sides,
together with properly related access to a public street or alley, which provides maneuvering
room , located totally outside of any street or road or alley right-of-way.

Performance - Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance, or other exhibition
performed before an audience.

Personal Services - Any enterprise conducted for gain which primarily offers services to the
general public such as shoe repair, watch repair, barber shops, florists, beauty parlors and similar
activities.

Pond - Any man made structure in which water is impounded by constructing a dam or
embankment or by excavating a pit or dugout. Pond includes retention basins designed to
permanently hold water, but does not include detention basins designed for short-term water
containment or landscape water features less than one hundred and fifty (150) square feet.

Professional Engineer - A qualified individual who is licensed as a Professional Engineer in the
State of Ohio .

Public Service Facility - The erection, construction, alteration, operation, or maintenance of
buildings, power plants, or substations, water treatment plants or pumping stations, sewage
disposal or pumping plants, and other similar publ ic service structures by a public utility, by a
railroad, whether publicly or privately owned, or by a municipal or other governmental agency,
including the furnishing of electrical, gas, rail transport, communication, public or private water
and sewage services. This definition excludes small off-site battery energy storage systems,
principal solar energy production facilities , sanitary landfills, wind power projects, and other
uses defined separately herein.

Public Uses - Public parks, schools, administrative and cultural buildings and structures, not
including public land or buildings devoted solely to the storage and maintenance of equipment
and materials or public service facilities.

Public Way - An alley, bridge, channel , ditch, easement, expressway, freeway , highway, land,
road, sidewalk, street, walk, bicycle path, or other ways in which the general public or a public
entity have a right, or which are dedicated, whether improved or not.

Quasi-public Use - Churches and other facilities of an educational , religious, charitable,
philanthropic, or non-profit nature.

Real Property Boundary - An imaginary line along the ground surface, and its vertical extension,
which separates the real property owned by one person or entity from that owned by another
person or entity, but it does not include intra-building real property division.

Recreation, Commercial - Any business which is operated as a recreational enterprise, either
publicly or privately owned, for profit. Examples include, but are not limited to: golf courses,
bowling alleys, swimming pools, tourist attractions, etc.


                                               81


Recreation, Non-commercial- Any business wh ich is operated as a recreational enterprise, either
publicly or privately owned, non-profit. Examples include, but are not limited to : fishing areas,
parks, archery ranges, etc.

Recreational Vehicle/Boat - A boat or vehicle type primarily designed for recreational, camping,
or travel use only, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another
vehicle. The basic entities include but are not limited to: boat, travel trailer, camping trailer,
truck camper, A TV and motor home.

Recreational Vehicle Park- A parcel of land upon which two or more recreational vehicle sites
are located , established, or maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general
public as temporary living quarters for recreation or vacation purposes.

Recreational Vehicle Site - A plot of ground within a recreational vehicle park intended for the
accommodation of a recreational vehicle, tent, or other individual camping unit on a temporary
basis.

Regularly features or regularly shown - A consistent or substantial course of conduct, such that
the films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial portion of the films or performances
offered as a part of the ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.

Research, Development and Testing - Establishments, structures, facilities and areas devoted to
research, product development and scientific testing whether in connection with the development
of new products, the discovery of causes of product failure or malfunction , and specifically
including without limitation the conduct of research, development and testing concerning;
automotive, vehicular and other forms of transportation; engines, power products and equipment;
production equipment; any and all other processes related to any of the forego ing; and improved
highway facilities for vehicular traffic.

Right-of-Way (ROW) - A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In addition to
the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips, sidewalks, lighting, and drainage
facilities, and may include special features required by the topography or treatment (such as
grade separation, landscaped areas, viaducts, and bridges).

Rotor Diameter - means the cross sectional dimension of the circle swept by the rotating blades.

Rubbish / Trash - Combustible and noncombustible waste materials including the residue from
the burning of wood, coal, coke and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes,
wood , excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.

Salvage Motor Vehicle - Any motor vehicle which is in a wrecked, dismantled, or worn out
condition, or unfit for operation as a motor vehicle.

Scale - The propo1tional relationship of the size of the building or structure to its sutToundings.


                                                82


Seat- For purposes of determining the number of off-street parking spaces for certain uses, the
number of seats is the number of seating units installed or indicated, or each twenty-four (24)
lineal inches of benches, pews, or space for loose chairs.

Semi-trailer / Sea-land Containers - A vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another separate motor vehicle, so that in operation, a part of its own weight or that of its
load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another vehicle. A semi- trailer shall not be used for
storage, advertising, business, or residence.

Service Station - Any building, structure, or land used for the dispensing and sale at retail of any
automobile fuels, oils, or accessories primarily intended for non-commercial vehicles. The
definition of a non-commercial vehicle shall be consistent with the definition found in Ohio
Revised Code Section 4501 (H) .

Setback Line - A line established by the Zoning Resolution generally parallel with and measured
from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in which no building or structure may be located
above ground, except as may be provided in Zoning Resolution.

Sewers, Central or Group - An approved sewage disposal system which provides a collection
network and disposal system and central sewage treatment facility for a single development,
community, or region.

Sewers, On-Site - A septic tank or similar installation on an individual lot which utilizes an
aerobic bacteriological process or equally satisfactory process for the elimination of sewage and
provides for the proper and safe disposal of the effluent, subject to the approval of health and
sanitation officials having jurisdiction.

Sexual activity - Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.

Sexual conduct - Vaginal intercourse between a male and fema le; anal intercourse, fellatio, and
cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and, without privilege to do so, the insertion,
however slight, of any part of the body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the
vaginal or anal cavity of another. Penetration , however slight, is sufficient to complete vaginal or
anal intercourse.

Sexual contact - Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including without limitation the
thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of
sexually arousing or gratifying either person.

Sexual Excitement - The condition of human male or female genitals when in a state of sexual
stimulation or arousal.

Seminude or State of semi-nudity -A state of dress in which opaque clothing covers not more
than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the female breast, as well as portions of the body
covered by supporting straps or devices .


                                               83


Sexual Encounter Establishment - A business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration, a place where either of the
following occur:
    a. Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for the purpose of engaging in
        specified sexual activities.
    b. Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of displaying their nude or
        semi nude bodies for their receipt of consideration or compensation in any type or form.
An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional
person licensed by the state engages in medically approved and recognized therapy, including,
but not Iimited to, massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to section 4 731.15 of the Revised
Code, is not a "sexual encounter establishment."

Sidewalk - That potiion of the road right-of-way outside the roadway, which is improved for the
use of pedestrian traffic.

Sign - Any device designated to inform or attract the attention of persons not on the premises on
which the sign is located.

Sign, Ground - A display sign supported by uprights or braces in or upon the ground surface.

Sign, Illuminated-Any sign illuminated by electricity, gas, or other artificial light including
reflection or phosphorescent light.

Sign, Lighting Device -Any light, string of lights, or group of lights located or arranged so as to
cast illumination on a sign.

Sign, Marquee - A display sign attached to or hung from a marquee, canopy or other covered
structure projecting from and supported by the building and extending beyond the building wall ,
building line or street lot line.

Sign-Off-Premises - Any sign unrelated to a business or profession conducted or a commodity or
service sold or offered upon the premises where such sign is located.

Sign, On-Premises - Any sign related to a business or profession conducted, or a commodity or
service sold or offered upon the premises where such sign is located.

Sign, Outdoor advertising off-premises - A sign directing attention to a specific business,
product, service, entertainment, or other activity sold, offered or conducted elsewhere than upon
the lot on which the sign is located .

Sign, Pole - Any sign which is erected on a pole or poles, which is wholly or partially
independent of any building for support.

Sign, Projecting- A display sign which is attached directly to the building wall and which
extends more than fifteen inches from the face of the wall.


                                               84


Sign, Roof-A display sign which is erected, constructed and maintained above the roof of the
building.

Sign, Temporary - A display sign, banner or other advertising device constructed on cloth,
canvas, fabric or other light temporary material , with or without a structural frame , intended for a
limited period of display, including decorative displays for holidays or public demonstrations.

Sign, Wall -A display sign which is painted on or attached directly to the building wall and
which extends not more than fifteen inches from the face of the wall.

Small Power Equipment - Any motorized or engine powered device, including but not limited to
lawn mowers, lawn and garden tools, riding lawn tractors and power saws, excluding other
motor vehicles.

Small Wind Energy Project -means a wind energy project that has a nameplate capacity of 25
kilowatts or less, has a total height of 140 feet or less, and is primarily used to generate energy
for use by its owner.

Solar energy related definitions:
       a) Accessory Solar Energy: A solar collection system consisting of one or more
           roof/building mounted, ground/pole mounted, and/or other structure mounted solar
           collector devices and solar related equipment, and is intended to primarily reduce on-
           site consumption of utility power. A system is considered an accessory solar energy
           system only if it supplies electrical or thermal power solely for on-site use, except
           that when a property upon which the system is installed also receives electrical power
           supplied by a utility company, excess electrical power generated and not presently
           needed for on-site use may be used by the utility company.
       b) Principal Solar Energy Production Facility: An area of land or other area used for a
           solar collection system principally used to capture solar energy and convert it to
           electrical energy. These production facilities primarily produce electricity to be used
           off-site. Principal solar energy production facilities consist of one or more
           roof/building mounted, ground/pole mounted, and/or other structure mounted solar
           collector devices, solar related equipment, and other accessory structures and
           buildings including light reflectors, concentrators, and heat exchangers, substations,
           electrical infrastructure, transmission lines and other appurtenant structures and
           facilities. Examples include "Small Solar Facility" and "Community Solar Facility"
           as defined by statute or herein.
       c) Solar Energy Equipment: Items for the purpose of generation, transmission, and
           storage of electricity, including but not limited to a solar photovoltaic cell , solar
           panels, lines, pumps, inverter(s), batteries, mounting brackets, racking, framing
           and/or foundation used for or intended to be used for the collection of solar energy.
       d) Solar Photovoltaic (PY): The technology that uses a semiconductor to convert light
           directly into electricity.
       e) Clear Fall Zone (Solar Energy): An area surrounding a ground/pole mounted or other
           structure mounted solar energy system into which the system and/or components


                                                85


          might fall due to inclement weather, poor maintenance, faulty construction methods,
          or any other condition causing the structure's failure that sha ll remain unobstructed
          and confined within the property lines of the lot where the system is located. The
          purpose of the zone being that if the system should fall or otherwise become
          damaged, the falling structure will be confined to the lot and will not intrude onto a
          neighboring property.
       f) Small Solar Facility: Pursuant to ORC 5 I 9.213 (A) (2), " Small Solar Facility" means
          solar panels and associated facilities with a single interconnection to the electrical
          grid and designed for, or capable of, operation at an aggregate capacity of less than 50
          MW.
       g) Community Solar: Also known as shared solar, or solar gardens, is an energy model
          that allows customers to buy or lease part of a larger off-site shared solar photovoltaic
          (PY) system. For the purposes of this Resolution, "Community Solar" is considered
          to be a "Principal Solar Energy Production Facility".


Solid Waste - Unwanted residual solid or semisolid material as results from industrial ,
commercial, agricultural , and community operations, and excluding earth or material from
construction, mining, or demolition operations, and slag and other substances which are not
harmful to public health, and includes, but is not limited to, garbage, combustible and non-
combustible material , street dirt, and debris. For purposes of this definition, " material from
construction operations" and "material from demolition operators" are those items affixed to the
structure being constructed or demolished, such as brick, stone, glass, wallboard, framing and
finishing lumber, roofing materials, plumbing, plumbing fixtures , wiring, and insulation material.

Sound - the sensation produced by stimulation of the organs of hearing by vibrations transmitted
through the air or other medium.

Sound Amplifying Equipment-Any machine or device for the amplification of the human
voice, music or any other sound. Sound amplifying equipment as used herein shall not be
construed as including standard automobile radio when used and heard only by occupants of the
vehicle in which installed or warning devices on authorized emergency vehicles or horns or other
warning devices on other vehicles used only for traffic safety purposes.

Sound Level, "A-Weighted" - The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on a sound level
meter using the A-weighted network. The level so read is designated dB(A) or dBA.

Sound Level Meter- The instrument, meeting the req uirements of ANSI S 1.4-1971 Type II
rating, used for making sound level measurements.

Sound Pressure - The instantaneous difference between the actual pressure and the average or
barometric pressure at a given point in space, as produced by sound energy.

Sound Pressure Level - The intensity in decibels (dB) of a sound.

Specified Anatomical Areas -The cleft of the buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, or the


                                              86


female breast.

Specified sexual activity - Any of the following:
   a. Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
       copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
   b. Excretory function as part of the activities described in subpart (1) of the definition of
       " Specified Sexual Activity" .

Stick-Built - A way of describing any structure built from board of lumber and other building
materials, in which a substantial amount of the required material and construction labor are
bought together in the final form at the foundation site.

Storage Facility -A structure which is partially open or fully enclosed in which animals, chattels
or property are stored or kept.

Story -That part of a building between the surface of a floor and the ceiling immediately above.
Structural Alterations -Any change in the supporting members of a building such as bearing
walls, columns, beams or girders.

Structure - Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location on or underneath
of the ground, or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among other
things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences and billboards. " Structure"
excludes wells, cisterns, underground residential fuel tanks, and septic systems.

Supply Yards -A commercial establishment storing and offering for sale building supplies, steel
supplies, coal, heavy equipment, feed and grain, and similar goods.

Sweepstakes/Internet Cafe - means any premises upon which any computerized sweepstakes
device is located for the use or entertainment of the public, whether or not such premises has
other business purposes of any nature whatsoever.

Swimming Pool - A pool, pond , lake, or open tank containing at least 1.5 feet of water at any
point and maintained by the owner or manager. Farm ponds are exempt from this definition.

       Private Swimming Pool - Exclusively used without paying an additional charge for
       admission by the residents and guests of a single household, a multifamily development,
       or a community , the members and guests of a club, or the patrons of a motel or hotel, and
       accessory use.

       Commun ity Swimming Pool - Operated with a charge for admission; a primary use.

Telecommunication Tower - Any structure with radio frequency transmission or reception
equipment attached that is free standing or is to be connected to a building or other structure.

Thoroughfare, Controlled or Limited Access - A road on the interstate highway system, or any
other route which is so designed as to carry large volumes of through traffic and preclude traffic


                                               87


flow interruptions normally resulting from turning and stopped traffic. Controlled or limited
access thoroughfares have no grade crossings and utilize exit and entrance ramps, bridges, merge
and exit lanes, and other design features to accomplish unimpeded traffic flow , and are not
intended to provide direct access to abutting property. Controlled or limited access thoroughfares
shall not be construed as providing lot frontage as required by these Regulations.

Toxic or Hazardous Material - Any substance or mixture by physical characteristic such as
flammability, corrositivity, toxicity, reactivity, or infectious characteristics as to pose a
significant or potential hazard to water supplies or human health if such substances were
discharged to land or waters of the community or township.


Trailer - means any unpowered vehicle towed by a powered vehicle. "Trailer" does not include
a manufactured home.

Transients- persons who pass through or by a place with only a brief stay or sojourn.

Transient Lodgings -A building in which lodging or boarding are provided and offered to the
public for compensation. As such it is open to the public in contradistinction to a boarding house,
rooming house, lodging house, or dormitory. Examples of transient lodgings include: hotel ,
motel , apartment hotel , or Bed & Breakfast.

Transport Terminals - Any business, structure or premise which primarily receives or distributes
goods.

Travel Trailer- A non-self propelled recreational vehicle that does not exceed an overall length
of thirty five (35) feet, exclusive of bumper and tongue or coupling, and contains less than three
hundred and twenty (320) square feet when erected on site. "Travel trailer" continues to include
a tent-type fold-out camping trailer as defined in section 4517.01 of the Ohio Revised Code. A
travel trailer is designed to be used as temporary dwelling (not more than 90 days) and shall not
be used as a residential dwelling.

Use - The specific purposes for which land , a driveway or a building is designated, arranged,
intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.

Variance - A variance is a modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations which such
modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where owing to conditions peculiar to
the property and not the result of the action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the
regulations would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.

Veterinary Animal Hospital or Clinic - A place used for the care, grooming, diagnosis, and
treatment of sick, ailing, infirm, or injured animals, and those who are in need of medical or
surgical attention, and may include overnight accommodations on the premises for the treatment,
observation and/or recuperation. lt may also include boarding that is incidental to the primary
activity.



                                              88


Vicinity Map - A drawing located on the plat which sets forth by dimensions or other means, the
relationship of the proposed subdivision or use to other nearby developments or landmarks and
community facilities and services within the general area in order to better locate and orient the
area in question.

Walkway-A public way, four (4) feet or more in width, for pedestrian use only, whether along
the side of a road or not.

Weekday-Any day of the week (Monday through Friday) that is not a legal holiday .

Wholesale and Warehouse - Business establishments that generally store and sell commodities
in large quantities or by the piece to retailers, jobbers, other wholesale establishments, or
manufacturing establishments. These commodities are basically for further resale, for use in the
fabrication of a product, or for use by a business service.

Wind energy project - means equipment that converts and then stores or transfers energy from
the wind into usable forms of energy (as defined by ORC § 1551.20) and includes any base,
blade, foundation , generator, nacelle, rotor, tower, transformer, turbine, vane, wire, or other
component used in the project.

Wind generator - means the mechanical and electrical conversion components mounted at the top
of a tower in a wind energy project.

Wind Power Turbine Owner - The person or persons who own the Wind Turbine Structure.

Wind Power Turbine Tower - The support structure to which the turbine and rotor are attached.

Wind Power Turbine Tower Height - The height above grade of the fixed po1tion of the tower,
including the wind turbine and blades at their highest point.

Yard - A piece of open ground around a house, barn, school or building, unobstructed by any
structure, unless otherwise authorized by this ordinance.

Yard, Front - A yard extending between side lot lines across the front of a lot and from the front
lot line to the front of the principal building.

Yard, Rear - A yard extending between side lot Iines across the rear of a lot and from the rear lot
line to the rear of the principal building.

Yard, Side-A yard extending from the principal building to the side lot line on both sides of the
principal building between the lines establishing the front and rear yards.

Zoning Permit- A document issued by the Zoning Inspector authorizing the use of lots,
structures, uses of land and structures, and the characteristics of the uses.




                                               89


This Resolution is hereby adopted on this 7" day of April, 2026.

Chaitman, Board of Township Trustees

Membek, Board of Township Trustees

Member, Board of Township Trustees

Attest, Fiscal’ Officef, Township Trustees

90
