                   Bucyrus City Regular Council Meeting
                           Monday, May 4, 2026
       Audio can be found at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MRAGuhOTOp8

President Kevin Myers, James Mee, Robert Taylor, Ray Thitoff, Christopher Mauritz,
Allison LeClair, Terry Spiegel, Cody Scott

Call to Order
President Kevin Myers called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

Roll Call:
Roll Call was taken with the following members present: James Mee, Robert Taylor, Ray
Thitoff, Christopher Mauritz, Allison LeClair, Terry Spiegel, Cody Scott

Accepting Minutes from Previous Sessions:
Minutes were presented from the Public Hearing on April 14, 2026
   • Motion to approve: James Mee
   • Second: Robert Taylor
   • Voice vote passes.

Minutes were presented from the Regular Council Meeting on April 21, 2026
   • Motion to approve: James Mee
   • Second: Terry Spiegel
   • Voice vote passes.

Communication and Petitions:
May 6, 2026, is National Meeting Minutes Day. President Kevin Myers thanked the Clerk of
Council for processing the meeting minutes.

Special Guests and Recognitions:
None

Citizen Participation:
Max Miller, 135 E. Kilbourne Drive. Mr. Miller previously managed the Bucyrus Tourism &
Visitors Bureau. He shared his opinion on the organization and management of Bucyrus
Tourism. Mr. Miller was extended three additional minutes to speak to Council. Motion
was made by Robert Taylor and a second by Allison LeClair. Voice vote passes and he was
extended additional time.

James Cady, Sandusky, Ohio. Mr. Cady had questioned if a previous city employee was
being paid administrative leave. He shared his thoughts on Sunoco zoning change.
 Mr. Cady was extended three additional minutes to speak to Council. Motion was made by
James Mee with a second by Robert Taylor. Voice vote passes and he was extended
additional time.

Standing Committee Reports
Platting – Chair James Mee has no report. President Myers referred Adam Frizzel’s email
regarding alley vacation.
Public Lands and Buildings -No report
Health & Safety – Chair Robert Taylor shared that E-bikes were discussed at the last
committee meeting.
Finance –No report
Economic Development – No report. President Myers asked if the Economic
Development Committee was accepting the recommendations from Tax Incentive Review
Council. Chair Allison LeClair states the committee is accepting the recommendations.
Roll call vote passed unanimously.
Service – Vice Chair Cody Scott gave a summary of the previous Service Committee
meeting.
Traffic Commission –No report

Robert Taylor made a motion to accept the standing committee reports collectively, with a
second by Cody Scott. Motion passed by voice vote.

Report of City Officers
Mayor, Bruce Truka: Mayor Truka shared the progress on the Aumiller Walking Trail is
moving quickly and that the city has applied for an airport grant and is awaiting to find out if
it’s approved. Mayor Truka shared he received a phone call that the Kentucky Fried Chicken
has closed.
Service Safety Director, Tommy Starner: SSD Starner presented information on the
sponsorship of benches to be placed around the walking trail.
Law Director, Brandon Gobrecht: No report
Auditor, Kali Lewis: Provided month end Trial Balance. Auditor Lewis made a referral to
the Finance Committee for Appropriations of Police Department equipment.
Treasurer, Adrienne Roski: No report
Police Chief Jon Dorsey: Provided his April monthly report and shared events the Police
Department has attended.
Fire Chief Schwemley: No report

Terry Spiegel made a motion to accept the City Officers’ reports collectively, with a second
by Allison LeClair. Motion passed by voice vote.


Citizen Input Regarding Reports of City Officers:
None.
Consideration of Proposed Legislation for the First Time:
Proposed Ordinance 27-2026 – CHIP Partnership Agreement
Proposed Ordinance 28-2026 – Moratorium for Data Centers
Proposed Ordinance 29-2026 – 1428 South Sandusky Zoning Change
Proposed Ordinance 30-2026 – 1518 South Sandusky Zoning Change
Proposed Ordinance 31-2026 – 1482 South Sandusky Zoning Change
Proposed Resolution 226-2026 – EPA Final Findings & Orders
Proposed Resolution 227-2026 – Financial Capabilities Agreement
Proposed Resolution 228-2026 – TIRC Appointment

Terry Spiegel made a motion to accept the Proposed Legislation as the first reading, with a
second by Robert Taylor. Motion passed by voice vote.

Consideration of Proposed Legislation for the Second Time:
Proposed Ordinance 22-2026 – Repeal BCO Chapter 385
Proposed Ordinance 23-2026 – Amend BCO Chapter 351
Proposed Ordinance 24-2026 - Amend BCO Chapter 135
Proposed Ordinance 25-2026 – Repeal BCO Chapter 353
Proposed Resolution 223-2026 – Crusin’ with the COPS
Proposed Resolution 224-2026 – Amend Bratwurst Festival Closures

James Mee made a motion to accept the Proposed Legislation as the second reading, with
a second by Ray Thitoff. Motion passed by voice vote.

Citizen Participation:
None

Proposed Ordinances and Resolutions were referred back to their originating committees.

Committee Report on Pending Legislation:
Health & Safety Committee is favorable for:
  • Proposed Ordinance 22-2026
  • Proposed Ordinance 23-2026
  • Proposed Ordinance 24-2026
  • Proposed Ordinance 25-2026
  • Proposed Ordinance 28-2026
  • Proposed Resolution 223-2026
  • Proposed Resolution 224-2026


Economic Development Committee is favorable for:
   • Proposed Ordinance 27-2026
   • Proposed Resolution 228-2026
Platting Committee is favorable for:
    • Proposed Ordinance 29-2026
    • Proposed Ordinance 30-2026
    • Proposed Ordinance 31-2026

Service Committee is favorable for:
   • Proposed Resolution 226-2026
   • Proposed Resolution 227-2026

President Myers entertained a motion for the 2nd and 3rd reading of Proposed Ordinance
27-2026 to suspend the rules, waive the reading of the caption and text, and declare an
emergency. Motion by Robert Taylor with a second by Cody Scott. Roll Call: James Mee –
yea, Robert Taylor – yea, Ray Thitoff – yea, Christopher Mauritz – yea, Allison LeClair – yea,
Terry Spiegel – yea, and Cody Scott – yea. Motion passed.

President Myers entertained a motion for the 2nd and 3rd reading of Proposed Ordinance
28-2026 to suspend the rules, waive the reading of the caption and text, and declare an
emergency. Motion by Allison LeClair with a second by Robert Taylor. Roll Call: James Mee –
yea, Robert Taylor – yea, Ray Thitoff – yea, Christopher Mauritz – yea, Allison LeClair – yea,
Terry Spiegel – yea, and Cody Scott – yea. Motion passed.

President Myers entertained a motion for the 2nd and 3rd reading of Proposed Resolution
226-2026 to suspend the rules, waive the reading of the caption and text, and declare an
emergency. Motion by Allison LeClair with a second by Robert Taylor. Roll Call: James Mee –
yea, Robert Taylor – yea, Ray Thitoff – yea, Christopher Mauritz – yea, Allison LeClair – yea,
Terry Spiegel – yea, and Cody Scott – yea. Motion passed.

President Myers entertained a motion for the 2nd and 3rd reading of Proposed Resolution
227-2026 to suspend the rules, waive the reading of the caption and text, and declare an
emergency. Motion by Allison LeClair with a second by Cody Scott Roll Call: James Mee –
yea, Robert Taylor – yea, Ray Thitoff – yea, Christopher Mauritz – yea, Allison LeClair – yea,
Terry Spiegel – yea, and Cody Scott – yea. Motion passed.

Executive Session:
   • James Mee made a motion to enter Executive Session with all elected members of
      Council, Council President, Auditor, Service-Safety Director, Law Director, and
      Mayor pursuant to Ohio Revised Code 121.22(G)(2)
   • Second by Terry Spiegel
   • Roll call vote: James Mee – yea, Ray Thitoff – yea, Robert Taylor – yea, Chris Mauritz
      – yea, Allison LeClair – yea, Terry Spiegel – yea, Cody Scott – yea.
   • Council entered Executive Session at 6:53 p.m.
   • Robert Taylor made a motion to exit Executive Session
   • Second by Cody Scott.
   •   Roll call vote: James Mee – yea, Ray Thitoff – yea, Robert Taylor – yea, Chris Mauritz
       – yea, Allison LeClair – yea, Terry Spiegel – yea, Cody Scott – yea.
   •   Council exited Executive Session at 7:34 p.m.
   •   No action taken from Executive Session.

Old and Unfinished Business:
None

New and Miscellaneous Business:
Councilman Chris Mauritz reminded everyone to vote on Election Day on May 5, 2026.

Excuse Council Members Who Are Absent:
None.

Referrals:
   1. Adam Frizzel email on alley vacations to Platting Committee
   2. Appropriations for Police Department Equipment

Adjournment:
Terry Spiegel made a motion to adjourn the meeting.
Second by Robert Taylor.
Voice vote passes and meeting adjourned at 7:35 p.m.
