CITY OF FAIRBORN
COUNCIL MEETING
February 20, 2023, at 6:00 p.m.
Council Chambers

COUNCIL MEMBERS Present Absent
Paul Keller, Mayor bd C]
Clint Allen, Councilman Xx LC]
Adam Fritzsche, Councilman LE]
Kevin Knepp, Deputy Mayor |
Rodney McCubbins, Councilman xX] L|
Mary Reaster, Councilwoman Xx] CL]
Tana Stanton, Councilwoman X Cc

STAFF MEMBERS PRESENT
Anderson, Gebhart, Mayer, Taylor, Williams, and Wolfe.

Deputy Mayor Knepp asked the Scouts to come down and stand in front of the credenza.
He asked everyone to stand as Girls Troop, Senior Patrol Leader from Troop 72, directed
the presentation of the colors.

Everyone stood for the Pledge of Allegiance and a moment of silence.

Mayor Keller altered the agenda to allow the Scouts to remain in place of the presentation
of the proclamation.

PRESCHEDULED BUSINESS
Mayor Keller read a proclamation recognizing National Boy Scout Day.

Deputy Mayor Knepp thanked everyone for attending. It is an honor to recognize the
Scouts present and throughout Greene County. He thanked the parents who are leaders
and the Scouts and youth for becoming Scouts. He thanked them for all that they do for
the community. He asked that they continue to be good citizens. It is interesting to note
that Fairborn has Eagle Scouts who have been in space, some that are doctors and some
that are currently on submarines as we speak. The gambit and creation of Scouts and
their leadership throughout our country continues today and they all have something to
aspire to.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Councilwoman Reaster moved to approve the February 6, 2023,
Council Meeting Minutes. Councilwoman Stanton seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried.
Mayor Keller declared the minutes approved as written.


Councilman Allen moved to approve the February 13, 2023, Council Work Session
minutes. Councilman McCubbins seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mayor Keller
declared the minutes approved as written.

OLD BUSINESS

ORDINANCE 6-23 AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUANCE AND
SALE OF NOTES IN THE MAXIMUM AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF
$3,525,000, IN ANTICIPATION OF THE ISSUANCE OF BONDS, FOR THE PURPOSE
OF PAYING THE COSTS OF (A) ACQUIRING AND IMPROVING CERTAIN
PROPERTIES IN SEVERAL LOCATIONS WITHIN THE CITY AND PROVIDING FOR
THE DEMOLITION AND SITE PREPARATION THEREOF, (B) ACQUIRING
APPROXIMATELY THREE ACRES OF REAL PROPERTY LOCATED IN THE BROAD
STREET CORRIDOR AND PROVIDING FOR THE DEMOLITION AND SITE
PREPARATION THEREOF AND (C) IMPROVING VARIOUS PARCELS OF REAL
PROPERTY LOCATED ON MAIN STREET OR 32 STREET, INCLUDING
DEMOLITION, SITE PREPARATION AND REHABILITATION, EACH AND ALL IN
SUPPORT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND JOB CREATION WITHIN THE CITY.

Councilman Fritzsche moved to read Ordinance 6-23 for the second time by title only.
Councilwoman Reaster seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor,
read Ordinance 6-23 by title only.

Annetta Williams, Finance Director, stated she would discuss Ordinances 6-23 through
8-23 in one presentation. Included in these Ordinances are short term BAN renewals for
2023. These were originally issued for construction, community, and economic
development projects. The short term BANs mature annually and must be paid off. They
will be paying them off with a new BAN renewal. Ordinance 6-23 is for property acquisition
and demolition BANS. In 2016 we had phase one of a redevelopment strategy and that
included a BAN issue of $1,525,000 for the acquisition of various hotels along the Broad
Street Corridor. In 2017 we had phase two of that strategy which included $1,000,000 to
acquire some mobile home parks, the American Legion Building, former Gino’s Time Out
Tavern and some Main Street properties. They also had a $1,000,000 issue to finance
the renovation of 305 Main Street for the Spark project. Ordinance 6-23 is a total issue of
$3,525,000 for those issues just discussed. Staff recommends adoption of Ordinance 6-
23.

Ordinance 7-23 is a BAN renewal for $2,456,000. Of this amount $1,906,000 is for the
Spangler Road improvements on the I-675 corridor TIF District area. The amount coming
due is $1,972,000 and we are in mandatory paydown phase, so they are paying $66,000
down on that note issue. They are also issuing $550,000 for the Family Video acquisition.
Staff recommends adoption of Ordinance 7-23.

Ordinance 8-23 is a new BAN issue of $200,000 to fund the 2023 Curb and Sidewalk
project. This would have originally been completed last year, but because one the prices
came in so high and then the 2022 project had been delayed and they were working on
that last year. The decision was made to postpone this to this year and roll it in with the
Street program bid in an effort to get more favorable prices. This will require more than
likely an advance from the General Fund to get the project started because it will not be


issued until August and that project will more than likely start before then. However, they
are just waiting for the bids to come in. This is going to be bid out with the County’s
project. So, it is all based upon their schedule. They are just waiting for that to come
back so they can make that final determination on whether that advance is really needed.
Staff recommends adoption of Ordinance 8-23.

Mayor Keller opened the public hearing for Ordinance 6-23.
Mayor Keller closed the public hearing for Ordinance 6-23.
Council had no questions.

Deputy Mayor Knepp moved to waive the rule requiring that Ordinances be read on three
separate occasions and that Ordinance 6-23 be read for the third time by title only.
Councilwoman Reaster seconded. Yeas, seven: Knepp, Reaster, Allen, Fritzsche,
McCubbins, Stanton and Keller. Nays, none. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor, read Ordinance
6-23 by title only.

Councilwoman Reaster moved to adopt Ordinance 6-23. Councilman Allen, seconded.
Yeas, seven: Reaster, Allen, Fritzsche, Knepp, McCubbins, Stanton, and Keller. Nays,
none. Mayor Keller declared Ordinance 6-23 duly adopted.

ORDINANCE 7-23 AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUANCE AND
SALE OF NOTES IN THE MAXIMUM AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF
$2,456,000 IN ANTICIPATION OF THE ISSUANCE OF BONDS, FOR THE PURPOSE
OF PAYING THE COSTS OF IMPROVING THE CITY’S PUBLIC ROADWAY SYSTEM
AND THE CITY’S PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITIES.

Councilman McCubbins moved to read Ordinance 7-23 for the second time by title only.
Councilman Fritzsche seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor,
read Ordinance 7-23 by title only.

Mayor Keller opened the public hearing for Ordinance 7-23.
Mayor Keller closed the public hearing of Ordinance 7-23.
Council had no questions.

Councilwoman Reaster moved to waive the rule requiring that Ordinances be read on
three separate occasions and that Ordinance 7-23 be read for the third time by title only.
Councilman McCubbins seconded. Yeas, seven: Reaster, McCubbins, Allen, Fritzsche,
Knepp, Stanton and Keller. Nays, none. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor, read Ordinance 7-
23 by title only.

Councilman McCubbins moved to adopt Ordinance 7-23. Councilman Fritzsche,
seconded. Yeas, seven: McCubbins, Fritzsche, Allen, Knepp, Reaster, Stanton, and
Keller. Nays, none. Mayor Keller declared Ordinance 7-23 duly adopted.


ORDINANCE 8-23 AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE ISSUANCE AND
SALE OF NOTES IN THE MAXIMUM PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $200,000 IN
ANTICIPATION OF THE ISSUANCE OF BONDS, FOR THE PURPOSE OF PAYING
THE PROPERTY OWNERS’ PORTION, IN ANTICIPATION OF THE LEVY AND
COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS, OF THE COSTS OF CONSTRUCTING
AND REPAIRING OF CERTAIN SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND DRIVEWAY
APPROACHES IN THE CITY OF FAIRBORN, OHIO.

Deputy Mayor Knepp moved to read Ordinance 8-23 for the second time by title only.
Councilwoman Stanton seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor,
read Ordinance 8-23 by title only.

Mayor Keller opened the public hearing of Ordinance 8-23.
Mayor Keller closed the public hearing of Ordinance 8-23.
Council had no questions.

Councilwoman Reaster moved to waive the rule requiring that Ordinances be read on
three separate occasions and that Ordinance 8-23 be read for the third time by title only.
Councilman Allen seconded. Yeas, seven: Reaster, Allen, Fritzsche, Knepp, McCubbins,
Stanton and Keller. Nays, none. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor, read Ordinance 8-23 by title
only.

Councilwoman Reaster moved to adopt Ordinance 8-23. Deputy Mayor Knepp,
seconded. Yeas, seven: Reaster, Knepp, Allen, Fritzsche, McCubbins, Stanton, and
Keller. Nays, none. Mayor Keller declared Ordinance 8-23 duly adopted.

NEW BUSINESS

ORDINANCE 9-23 MAKING SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS TO THE
APPROPRIATIONS BUDGET OF THE CITY OF FAIRBORN, STATE OF OHIO, AND
AUTHORIZING TRANSFERS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2022,
AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.

Councilwoman Stanton moved to read Ordinance 9-23 for the first time by title only
declaring an emergency. Councilman Fritzsche seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried.
Mike Mayer, City Solicitor, read Ordinance 9-23 by title only.

Danielle Wolfe, Asst. Finance Director, explained this is for the February supplemental
appropriations. These will be supplemental appropriations to the Operating Capital and
Trust Budgets. They are authorized to do so by ORC 5705.40. She reviewed the
adjustments included in the Ordinance. Staff recommends approval of Ordinance 9-23.

Councilwoman Stanton asked about the unemployment amount included in the
legislation. Mrs. Wolfe explained when an employee leaves and files for unemployment
the City has a portion, they are responsible for paying. It is determined by the Ohio Jobs
and Family Services. When an employee leaves they do not know what that is going to
look like until they receive the statement or explanation from Job and Family Services


and that is why they don’t know how to budget for that. Councilwoman Stanton asked if
that is only for the person that is terminated, not someone that chose to leave. Mrs. Wolfe
stated correct. Councilwoman Stanton asked if that is ever contested. Mrs. Wolfe stated
they are researched, and HR does their due diligence, yes.

Mayor Keller stated for those that do not know, all this information is given out to all of
Council on Friday, so they have a lot of reading to do on the weekend. They have all day
on Monday to ask questions.

Councilwoman Reaster moved to adopt Ordinance 9-23 declaring an emergency.
Councilman Fritzsche seconded. Yeas, seven: Reaster, Fritzsche, Allen, Knepp,
McCubbins, Stanton, and Keller. Motion carried. Mayor Keller announced Ordinance 9-
23 was duly adopted.

ORDINANCE 10-23 APPROVING THE ZONING MAP AMENDMENT FROM
SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL TO PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, A PRELIMINARY
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) PLAN, AND PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT
FOR A RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT TO BE KNOWN AS GLENVIEW LOCATED AT
2316 NEW GERMANY TREBEIN ROAD.

Councilman McCubbins moved to read Ordinance 10-23 for the first time by title only.
Councilman Allen seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor, read
Ordinance 10-23 by title only.

Mayor Keller set the public hearing of Ordinance 10-23 for Monday, March 6, 2023.

ORDINANCE 11-23 APPROVING THE VACATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY OF
ENTERPRISE DRIVE

Councilwoman Reaster moved to read Ordinance 11-23 for the first time by title only.
Councilwoman Stanton seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor,
read Ordinance 11-23 by title only.

Mayor Keller set the public hearing of Ordinance 11-23 for Monday, March 6, 2023.

RESOLUTION 4-23 AUTHORIZING THE FINANCE DIRECTOR TO REQUEST
ADVANCE PAYMENT OF THE TAXES AND OTHER SOURCES OF REVENUES
COLLECTED IN 2023 AND HELD IN THE COUNTY TREASURY TO THE ACCOUNT
OF THE CITY OF FAIRBORN.

Councilman McCubbins moved to read Resolution 4-23 for the first time by title only.
Councilwoman Stanton seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor,
read Resolution 4-23 by title only.

Annetta Williams, Finance Director, explained the county treasurer collects monies that
are due to local governments for real property taxes, special assessments and state
reimbursement. The treasurer will then distribute these collections to the City semi-
annually in March and July. ORC 321.34 allows local governments to receive advances


of these monies and they require a resolution to be passed. This is an annual
housekeeping issue. Staff recommends adoption of Resolution 4-23.

Councilman McCubbins asked if we knew the approximate amount the City would
receive. Mrs. Williams stated for the final settlement she does not have that amount. She
believes last year they collected advances of $4.8 million, and the final settlement was
$1.5 million. It will be somewhere around there, maybe a little bit more.

Mayor Keller stated this was routine housekeeping.

Councilwoman Reaster moved to adopt Resolution 4-23. Councilman Fritzsche
seconded. Yeas, seven: Reaster, Fritzsche, Allen, Knepp, McCubbins, Stanton and
Keller. Nays, none. Mayor Keller declared Resolution 4-23 duly adopted.

RESOLUTION 5-23 AUTHORIZING THE CITY MANAGER TO ENTER INTO A
CONTRACT WITH ENERGY SYSTEMS GROUP (ESG) FOR THE RENOVATION OF
FORMER FIRE STATION #1, 29 N. BROAD ST.

Deputy Mayor Knepp moved to read Resolution 5-23 for the first time by title only.
Councilwoman Stanton seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor,
read Resolution 5-23 by title only.

Rob Anderson, City Manager, explained as Council would recall the City dedicated $2
million of our American Rescue Plan Act monies towards the renovation of former Fire
Station #1. The way they are going about doing that will be a design-build process where
they solicited qualifications from qualified finms who would then take on a maximum
amount contract to do the renovation. They solicited qualifications and Energy Systems
Group was the clear choice when those qualifications were submitted. He is
recommending they enter a contract with them for a not to exceed amount of $2 million.
They will go through the design phase of the project, do the design and then submit the
construction drawings for starting in the next two or three months he would assume.
Council will see this again. We do not have a use for the building yet. They are about to
start a process where they will solicit proposals from interested groups and see which
proposal has the most benefit to the City and the surrounding area and then make those
recommendations to Council and we will pick someone to occupy that space once it is
renovated. He anticipates the renovation taking 12 to 18 months possibly depending on
lead times for different equipment.

Councilman McCubbins asked if there are any hazards that will need to be taken care of
with this project. Mr. Anderson explained the asbestos was removed years ago. He is
not sure of the possibility of some lead-based paint, but most of the other ones are known
and we should not have to waste a lot of that money on remediating those.

Councilwoman Stanton asked if this group is going to work toward any certain level of
energy efficiencies or LEED certification. Mr. Anderson stated, yes, we have told them
we want to push toward the maximum efficiency possible. They are going to look at
everything from possibly solar on the roof. He does not think geothermal makes sense
because we don’t have anywhere to do the groundwork needed to do that. They are


going to look for as much energy efficiency as we can possibly afford and include it in the
project.

Councilman Allen stated the firehouse is one of those iconic buildings in Fairborn we are
trying to continue to keep relevant and purposeful. Again, this is one of those areas the
citizens wanted, and it is important that we go ahead and invest it and invest it right.

Deputy Mayor Knepp thinks it is important that we preserve this building in some way so
it can be useful again. It is an important way to spend the money.

Mayor Keller agreed with the comments. This is a Fairborn icon, and we don't want to
see it disappear.

Councilman McCubbins moved to adopt Resolution 5-23. Deputy Mayor Knepp
seconded. Yeas, seven: McCubbins, Knepp, Allen, Fritzsche, Reaster, Stanton, and
Keller. Nays, none. Mayor Keller declared Resolution 5-23 duly adopted.

CITIZENS COMMENTS

Mayor Keller opened Citizens Comments.

Donna Johnson, 328 Bowman Drive, provided the attached comments shown on Exhibit
“A” to these minutes.

Rich Renken, 1437 Graceland Drive, stated this may have already been settled, but he
thought maybe the Council should know. He was involved in a construction project a few
years ago on Dayton Yellow Springs Road. At that time he was told they had to have a
dumpster that was in an enclosure on all sides. On February 10, 2023 he sent a message
to the City Manager reporting that two businesses at 1892, 93 and 94 South Maple have
dumpsters sitting in their parking lot along the Dayton Yellow Springs Road area. This is
at the Five Points intersection. The two businesses are Little Cesar’s Pizza and VIP Vape
Shop. His family has a vested interest in this building site because they have a business
there. This just trashes the business site. There is an enclosure on the property, but
someone had boarded it up and the gate was broken and this was a community dumpster
for all three of the facilities there. If our City code requires normal trash dumpsters to be
placed in an enclosure this should receive a request from the City to remove the
dumpsters if they are in the open. He believes Mr. Anderson is already working on that
so he thanked him for that effort. The owner of the property has been an absentee
landlord. It is Family Video. They left the building in pretty bad shape when Mr. Renken’s
business moved in and he believes the Family Video Company still owns the property
and they are located in Springfield, Illinois. He was a bit confused when he saw that
Fairborn had purchased a property Family Video, but he is assuming that is the one on
Broad Street, not the one at the Five Points section.

Mayor Keller closed Citizens Comments.


CITY MANAGER COMMENTS

Rob Anderson, City Manager, explained we are now 27 days away from St. Patrick’s Day.
The mayor did a fine job reading a proclamation on iHeart radio WTUE on Friday
announcing the City’s St. Pat Rock’s Day event in partnership with iHeart radio. It starts
at 11:30 a.m. on Friday, March 17, 2023 and it goes until 10:00 p.m. There will be bands,
food trucks, Irish dancers and more. Ten dollars will get you a wrist band that is good all
day, if they would like to come down and celebrate St. Patrick’s Day. They certainly look
forward to providing the entertainment.

Just as a side note, he knows that people question and disparage these events in some
way. This is treated as marketing for the City. It is a way to open the City to people who
don’t normally come downtown. Who would maybe not normally want to come to
Fairborn. It is a way to attract folks from outside the region to see how wonderful of a
community Fairborn is and see some of the wonderful things we have going on downtown.
If they receive questions about that or see someone ask that question that is why they do
this. It is a wonderful opportunity. They are going to say the word Fairborn on iHeart radio
and WTUE probably a countless number of times in the next 30 days and you just can’t
pay for that kind of publicity.

The second thing is they will have their Council retreat this Friday and Saturday at Spark
Fairborn. He asked that they arrive by 8:30 a.m. Friday morning as they will have
breakfast for them. They would like to start the meeting promptly at 9:00 a.m. Mr.
Anderson will arrive at 8:00 a.m., but if they could arrive by 8:30 a.m. that would be great.
They have a really good agenda, and he looks forward to some good discussion. They
will do all day on Friday and then Saturday morning they will start again at 8:00 a.m. and
focus strictly on the Council goals. If Council has anything, in particular, they would like
to talk about please shoot him a text or email and he will make sure to get that on the
agenda.

COUNCIL COMMENTS

Councilwoman Reaster did not have time to prepare comments today, but she did send
a high-five to Bennett Hart for bowling a perfect score of 300. He was so non chalant
about it. Good job Bennett.

Councilman Fritsche did not have any comments.

Deputy Mayor Knepp thanked the City for recognizing the Scouts this evening. Tecumseh
Council which compromises five counties in our area including Greene County is
celebrating 100 years, so he thinks it was worth well noting.

Councilman McCubbins stated like Mary he tried to decompress this weekend as much
as possible. He did not have anything so to speak prepared, but they had their Council
work session last week and they received a very brief update from all the Department
Managers about what their challenges will be for the coming year and two themes
resonated in that, and he knows in his work he sees is with staffing and engagement with
the community. Two big things that he thinks Council will focus on this weekend at the
retreat. The other thing is with being in the medical field and having a lot of interest in


his personal life about overdoses and that type of activity right now. There is a new strain
of drug going around Xylazine he believes it is called. It is an animal tranquilizer, and it
is deadly. If you are out and about in Fairborn and you see something, say something.
Let our professionals get out there and work that issue. Hopefully we can save a life and
turn it around for someone.

Councilwoman Stanton thanked those who attended and made comments and made their
opinions known. Council appreciates that. She thanked the Boy Scouts for coming today
and the Mayor for celebrating them. She is looking forward to the retreat and talking
about the challenges and the strategies.

Councilman Allen thanked the Scouts for coming. It is always awesome to the see the
Scouts. He was a Scout and the things he learned are lifelong. He still remembers the
Scout oath. Those things that we teach our youth, and those opportunities are lifelong.
It is great to hear the Eagle Scouts that came through Fairborn and are representing us
in space and all those other things they do. It is beautiful with more to come. He stated
he wanted to spend just a minute to talk. We started this month and this is the last meeting
and the culminating of Black History Month. Quite frankly, he thinks he has had more
engagements over the last two months with so many citizens about Black History Month
and the history of Fairborn and the accomplishments and successes of African Americans
in the military and just in life in general. He wanted to share his thoughts quickly. It was
on his heart to share this:

See attached Exhibit “B”.

He thanked everyone for their support during Black History Month. There were a ton of
things going on and he saw a lot of people. They got smarter over the past couple of
months. He thanked everyone and thanked the citizens who participated, and he thanked
Al for being there and listening to what he had to share.

Mayor Keller thanked Councilman Allen for his comments they were very well said. He
appreciates everyone that came in. He thanked Deputy Mayor Knepp for setting up the
Scouts that is always a very positive thing. Our future leaders were there. It is always
good to support that program. He announced the next Council meeting as March 6, 2023.

ADJOURNMENT

Councilman Allen moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilman McCubbins seconded.
Yeas, seven: Allen, McCubbins, Fritzsche, Knepp, Reaster, Stanton, and Keller. Nays,
none. Motion Gamned The -meeting adjourned at 6:56

tual Miley Lo

MAYOR ! — if CLERK, CITY OF FAIRBORN





Exhibit "A"

Monday, February 20, 2023
Mayor, Council:

15 months ago, Paul, | met with you and Tana, to share how the immature and unprofessional
actions by our City Manager brought harm to me, my family, and friends. | need not describe,
as | am on record, standing here, on Monday, November 1, 2021, addressing council and
recounting that distressing experience. Since then, Paul, and council, | have shared with you
through text messages, emails, and verbal communication, the continued divisive and harmful
behavior by our City Manager and City Communications Manager to include inappropriate social
media interactions on our City Facebook page and our City Manager laughing along on an
off-city Facebook page which advertised illegal drug activity in Fairborn when he should have
been reporting it. Each time, Paul, you indicated you would “talk with” City Management in
order to bring correction to these issues. Well, there comes a time, Paul and Council,
respectfully, when “talking with” becomes futile and the situation must be corrected by removing
children from the sandbox.

The past two weeks have proven adolescent and discordant behavior carry over through our
City Manager and Communications Department. Paul, Kevin, Clint, and counselor, you have
each received my letter concerning lack of social media policy within the City as well as, last
week, unsubstantiated claims of my hometown receiving a “thumbs up” on my taxpayer funded
Facebook page which has brought division and stands as a missed opportunity for the City of
Fairbom. And this week, the revelation of multiple “TikTok” videos produced and posted by the
City of Fairborn Municipal Government illustrates what is far beyond the boundaries of
acceptable professional behavior by City Staff and Management. These posts document waste
and abuse of taxpayer funds depicting office staff defacing publicly owned property, dangerously
announcing the absence of our City Manager to the world, as well as our City Manager
disparaging his own taxpayer assessed podcast. Highly paid Fairborn city employees are NOT
celebrities and their taxpayer funded cushy office is NOT a Hollywood movie set. How will these
dangerous online practices fare with Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and its contractors when
seeking business sites within the City of Fairborn? Behavior such as demonstrated by our City
on Social Media is not tolerated within our high standard Air Force. Such behavior would result
in loss of rank or even discharge. What | have witnessed over the past couple of weeks laid out
by City of Fairborn management staff, paid at a premium might | add, is the crotch of putrid and
unprofessional behavior, broadcast to the world through a Chinese owned company, a company
of which many government agencies are prohibiting usage due to national security matters.

City of Fairborn Municipal Government social media sites are official government documents
and I regret the neglect by City management to treat these sites as such.

15 months ago, Paul, during our conversation | mentioned that if these unprofessional patterns
of our City Manager and now his staff are not corrected, it will be to the detriment of the good
people of Fairborn. Your “talks” have rendered void. Let's see some serious personnel
changes within City of Fairbom Management.

Ved Neh







