RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS

Minutes of Council Meeting

DAYTON LEGAL BLANK, INC., FORM NO. 10148

Held April 13, 20 26

Rittman City Council Met in a
REGULAR MEETING
Monday, April 13, 2026

7:00 p.m.

Members Present: Sonya Hayward, Rich Schumacher, Melissa Shows and Nick Huff
Members Absent: Don Sweigert and Amanda Nelson
Presiding: Rich Schumacher, President of Council

The invocation was given by Ken Mann followed by the pledge of allegiance.

Approval of Minutes

a. March 23, 2026. Shows moved to approve, all Yeas on roll call and motion
carried.

Citizens Forum

Gerald McAvinew - 80 Bellevue. Stated that the City needs to do something
regarding the state of the sidewalks

Old Business

a. Ord. No. 8519 An Ordinance of the Council of the City of Rittman, Wayne and
Medina Counties and State of Ohio, Enacting a 180-day moratorium on the receipt,
processing issuance and approval of any application for a zoning certificate for NAICS
518 — Data Processing, Hosting and related services (Data Centers) under the City’s
Planning and Zoning Code; and declaring an emergency. Third Reading. Ord. No. 8519
was read on third reading. Hayward made a motion to postpone until the next meeting. Huff
stated that all this is doing is giving us an extra 180 days before we grant permission.
Beshara stated that we need to get the 180 days started and then do more research. Hayward
inquired if it would be brought back in October. Beshara stated that it would. Huff moved
to adopt. All Yeas on roll call and motion carried.

New Business

a. Ord. No. 8520 An Ordinance of the Council of the City of Rittman, Wayne and
Medina Counties and State of Ohio, amending the Annual Appropriation Ordinance
No. 8492, as amended according to the attached sheet(s) and declaring an emergency.
First Reading. Ord No, 8429 was read on first reading. Hayward moved to place on second,
all Yeas on roll call and motion carried.

b. Res. No. 8521 A Resolution of the Council of the City of Rittman, Wayne and
Medina Counties and State of Ohio, authorizing the Municipal Manager to advertise
for_and_accept bids for_and_ accept bids for the South Main Street Waterline
Improvement Project and declaring an emergency. First Reading. Res No. 8521 was

read on first reading. Shows moved to place on second, all Yeas on roll call and motion
carried.

City Manager’s Remarks

The Charter Review is wrapping up, we have had some really good meetings, they
have done a great job. The last meeting will be April 29, 2026, where they are going to go
over everything that they have reviewed and then take a vote on each subject. After that
Matt will prepare legislation to go to Council. Council will then determine whether or not
each subject will be sent to the voters in November.


RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS

Minutes of Council Meeting

DAYTON LEGAL BLANK, INC., FORM NO. 10148

Held April 13, 20.26

Finance Director’s Remarks

I think all of you got a quarterly financial update. I just want to highlight where we
are now that we have closed out the first quarter of the year. As a general standing, we are
doing really well. We are hitting our targets for our revenues and our expenditures are within
that 25% that we need to be in. I don’t have any areas that are glaring or anything that I am
worried about. | wanted to highlight some major revenues that we have gotten in, Real
Estate Tax, Income Tax. We had our OWDA loan transfer payments on there as well. Our
service fees for various departments that charge such as the Rec Center, EMS, water and
sewer. | also put in our expenditures, our larger ones or anything that is significant, our debt
related items, like our boom mower lease, the City Hall and fire truck loans and our sewer
jet lease. There is also our streets expenditures, so you can see that the hot box is on there,
and our street lights and road salt. We have buying some equipment, a heat exchanger
replacement, water heaters. The ladder truck repair was paid in the first quarter. The
accounts receivable is the Milton Township Contract, it’s just a pending balance that’s owed
tous. We will be sending an invoice out to them. Other than that I think that they are doing
really well. I’m really happy with the way the Directors have been handling their budgets
and staying on top of it and communicating with me to let me know what is going on, what
they need, any kind of future payments that might need to be made. I don’t have anything
else. Beshara asked if Chrystal wanted to discuss the Milton Township Contract. Marcum
responded that we received a letter from Milton Township, certified. They are cancelling
our contract with us that has been in effect for many years. It expires May 8, 2026. We
have one outstanding payment from 2024 and then the 2025 second payment is prorated to
the end. We will be sending a letter but that is a revenue that is not going to be coming in
so we will have to look for other avenues. It is something I feel if they are going to cancel
the contract we should make sure that we are fully paid before the end of it.

a. Approval of Financial Report for March, 2026. Shows moved to approve, all
Yeas on roll call and motion carried.

Second Citizens Forum

None

Council Remarks

Shows — thank you to everyone for attending tonight. I know it wasn’t the most
productive meeting. I appreciate your patience and hopefully we will get this resolved this
week.

Huff — thanks for coming.

Hayward — I want to thank everybody for coming. Hopefully, we get notice out all
of you guys for the special meeting, hopefully it will happen next week.

Schumacher - thank you everyone for coming. I do want to call out our City workers.
They just continue to do phenomenal things. I heard today what the Service Department has
been able to do with preventing flooding and helping citizens out during a flood. They have
done just a remarkable job. When was the last time you heard that the IGA Shopping Center
flooded? We had one house that flooded in the City during all of this rain. That just goes
to show what they are doing. Trying to come up with ways to solve that. I want to thank
everybody. I know Police and Fire as well continue to do phenomenal jobs. I just want to
thank our City workers for their hard work.

Adjourn: 7:31 p.m. Shows moved to adjourn, all Yeas on roll call and motion

carried. 4 A > L
po

