EMERGENCY

City of Cincinnati DBS pond
An @rdinance No.

ESTABLISHING Interim Development Control Overlay District No. 89, “Data Centers” as an
overlay district for a period of three months, pursuant to Chapter 1431, “Interim Development
Control Overlay District Regulations,” of the Cincinnati Municipal Code.

WHEREAS, the rapid construction of new data centers, driven primarily by the increased
demand for artificial intelligence, cloud services, and digital transformation, gives rise to the
possibility for significant changes to land uses that have the potential to adversely impact living
conditions, energy costs, health, safety, and quality of life throughout the City; and

WHEREAS, in response to these concerns, the City Manager directed the Department of
City Planning and Engagement to undertake a zoning study of certain areas of the City and
commence the process for establishing an Interim Development Overlay District (“IDC”) over the
study area during the pendency of the zoning study; and

WHEREAS, the City Planning Commission at its regularly scheduled meeting on February
6, 2026, and pursuant to Cincinnati Municipal Code Section 1431-05, affirmatively recommended
that the Council establish an IDC over the study area to ensure that any development during the
pendency of the City’s land use study is appropriate and does not detrimentally or adversely impact
the implementation of any potential zoning code map amendments that may result from the zoning
study; and

WHEREAS, a committee of Council considered the establishment of an IDC to regulate
the study area during the pendency of the City’s study and further considered the City Planning
Commission’s affirmative recommendation of the proposed IDC; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that placing interim development controls over the study
area during the pendency of the Department of City Planning and Engagement’s study and review
is consistent with Plan Cincinnati (2012) and its “Live” Initiative goal which seeks to support and
stabilize Cincinnati’s neighborhoods (page 160); and

WHEREAS, the Council further finds that the proposed IDC is in the interest of the public’s
health, safety, and general welfare; now, therefore,

BE IT ORDAINED by the Council of the City of Cincinnati, State of Ohio:
Section 1. That Council makes the following findings:

A. The City Manager has directed the Department of City Planning and
Engagement to undertake a zoning study within the CC-A, “Commercial
Community Auto-Oriented,” CG-A, “Commercial General Auto-
Oriented,” UM, “Urban Mix,” DD, “Downtown Development,”
ML, “Manufacturing Limited,” and MG, “Manufacturing General,” zoning


B. districts in the City (‘Study Area”) to investigate the potential impacts of
the development of data centers, defined as facilities whose primary
purpose is storage, processing, or management of digital data, within the
Study Area, and to make recommendations on the adoption of zoning code
text amendments that affect permitted land uses within the Study Area.

C. At its regularly scheduled meeting on February 6, 2026, the City Planning
Commission affirmatively recommended that the Council establish an
Interim Development Control Overlay District (“IDC”) over the Study
Area, set forth on the map as shown in Attachment “A,” attached hereto and
incorporated herein, to remain in effect while the Department of City
Planning and Engagement conducts its zoning study concerning the
development of data centers within the Study Area.

D. The potential zoning code text amendments considered in the zoning study
will require study and review by the City Planning Commission, City
Administration, and City Council prior to adoption.

E. The establishment of an IDC over the Study Area for a three-month period
is necessary to protect the public interest and ensure that any new

development is consistent with the preliminary objectives of the City’s
study during the pendency of the review of the area.

Section 2. That, pursuant to Cincinnati Municipal Code Section 1431-05, the official City
zone map is amended to superimpose Interim Development Control Overlay District No. 89, “Data
Centers” (“IDC District No. 89’), over the Study Area.

Section 3. That, pursuant to Cincinnati Municipal Code Sections 1431-07 and 1431-15,
the Council adopts the Application Review Guidelines for IDC District No. 89, attached hereto as
Attachment “B” and incorporated herein by reference, which shall be used by the City Planning
Commission in its review of permit applications subject to the guidelines.

Section 4. That, when reviewing permit applications pursuant to Section 3 herein, the City
Planning Commission shall be authorized to exercise the same authority granted to the Zoning
Hearing Examiner and the Historic Conservation Board, as applicable, to hear and decide
applications for variances, special exceptions, conditional uses, certificates of appropriateness, and

other development permissions governed by the zoning code.


Section 5. That IDC District No. 89 shall remain in effect for three months following the
effective date of this ordinance.

Section 6. That this ordinance shall be an emergency measure necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, health, safety, and general welfare and shall, subject to the terms
of Article II, Section 6 of the Charter, be effective immediately. The reason for the emergency is
the immediate need to impose interim development controls over the Study Area to ensure that the
substance and purpose of the planning, land use, and zoning solutions that may result from the
Department of City Planning and Engagement’s study and review are not prematurely destroyed

or impaired.

Passed: , 2026

Aftab Pureval, Mayor

Attest:

Clerk


ATTACHMENT A


ATTACHMENT A

Regulations and Application Review Guidelines for
Interim Development Control Overlay District No. 89,
“Data Centers,” and
Designation of Administrative Reviewer

Section I. Applications Subject to Review:

The following applications shall be reviewed by the City Planning Commission during the
pendency of Interim Development Control Overlay District No. 89, “Data Centers”:

(a) Building permits for:

i. new construction of data centers;
ii. alteration, modification, or expansion of data centers;
iii. changes in use to a data center; and
iv. site improvements associated with data centers.

(b) Certificates of compliance for:

i. new construction of data centers;
ii. alteration, modification, or expansion of data centers;
iii. changes in use to a data center; and
iv. site improvements associated with data centers.

(c) Certificates of appropriateness for:

i. new construction of data centers;

ii. alteration, modification, or expansion of data centers;
iii. | changes in use to a data center; and
iv. site improvements associated with data centers.

For the purposes of this section, “data center” shall mean a facility whose primary purpose is the
storage, processing, or management of digital data,

Section II. Designated Administrative Reviewer:

Council designates the Department of City Planning and Engagement as the staff reviewing
authority for Interim Development Control Overlay District No. 89, “Data Centers.”

Section III. Application Review Guidelines:

In addition to any other necessary reviews and approvals as required by the Cincinnati Municipal
Code and any other applicable laws, any application subject to review in Section I above shall be
reviewed by the City Planning Commission to determine whether the application conforms to all
applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations and is in the public interest.


In determining whether the application is in the public interest, the City Planning Commission
shall consider those factors listed below that are relevant to the application. The application’s
failure to conform to any single factor is not necessarily a sufficient basis for denial.

a)

b)

g)

h)

dD

k)

Neighborhood Compatibility and Community Character. The proposal has a density, scale,
size, location, programmatic configuration or function, and use that is compatible with the
prevailing site development patterns of adjacent and abutting properties and will not have
a material net cumulative adverse impact on the community’s health or general welfare.

Zoning. The proposed work conforms to the underlying zone district regulations and is in
harmony with the general purposes and intent of the Cincinnati Zoning Code.

No Other Practical Uses. There are no other practical or economic uses of the subject
property currently permitted in the underlying zoning district.

Power and Utility Coordination. The proposal includes electrical grid impact studies and
demonstration of available electrical capacity to serve the proposed use without adverse
impacts to existing customers and is designed to avoid disharmonious development
patterns.

Water Use and Availability. The proposal is designed to avoid excessive water
consumption that may impair service to existing customers or exceed the public water
system capacity.

Stormwater Management. The proposal is designed to address and minimize potential
adverse effects relating to off-site stormwater runoff owing to any relative increase in
impervious surface area or decrease in vegetative land cover related to the proposed
development.

Guidelines. The proposal conforms to any guidelines adopted or approved by Council for
the district in which the proposed work is located.

Plans. The proposal conforms to a comprehensive plan, any applicable urban design or
other plan officially adopted by Council, and any applicable community plan approved by
the City Planning Commission.

Proposed Zoning Amendments. The proposal is consistent with any proposed amendment
to the zoning code then under consideration by the City Planning Commission or Council.

Adverse Effects. Whether the proposal is likely to impose any adverse effect on the access
to the property by fire, police, or other public services; traffic conditions; sonic impacts;
air quality; or the development, usefulness or value of neighboring land and buildings.

Public Benefits. Whether the proposed work is likely to provide any economic or other
public benefits to the City.


ATTACHMENT B


Proposed Interim Development Control Overlay District No. 89, "Data Centers”

Towns tT p KET

Legend far! i ey
— Cincinnati Boundary : 2
MP IDC No. 89 Overlay

Sycamore

Towdship

Amberley
Village

224

Madeira
Miami
Township
Green
Township

Dethi
Township

A 0 05 1 2 Miles le

