                        Williamsburg Township Board of Trustees Minutes
                                        July 13, 2026
The Williamsburg Township Board of Trustees met on Monday, July 13, 2026 to transact business. Mr. Jordan called the
meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. All joined in the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag. Guy Bainum, Charlie Maklem, and Gary
Jordan answered the roll call. Also present were Fiscal Officer Doug Lefferson, Emergency Services Chief Jason McCarthy,
Maintenance Supervisor/Zoning Administrator/Cemetery Sexton Brian Tatman, Brian Bielfelt, and Ed Boll.

Mr. Jordan opened the 2027 Tax Budget Public Hearing. Fiscal Officer Lefferson did a PowerPoint presentation on the Tax
Budget. The presentation included the following summary highlights:

     •   Background – the Tax Budget projects revenue, expenditures, and fund balances for the upcoming year and is
         submitted to the County. The County Budget Commission determines if the Township is collecting property taxes
         beyond reasonably anticipated needs and can adjust tax rates if needed.
     •   Township annual property tax revenue is approximately $1.5 million
     •   Annual expenditures range from $2.5 to $2.9 million
     •   If relied on just property tax would be challenged to operate
     •   Other annual revenue approximates $1.0 million annually (includes core revenue: EMS billing, Gas tax, Cemetery
         fees plus additional revenue)
     •   Additional revenue includes JEDD, grants, and donations
     •   JEDD, grants, and donations have allowed Township to replace and upgrade aging vehicles, equipment, and
         buildings

Mr. Jordan asked for public comments on the 2027 Tax Budget. There was some discussion about the revenue provided from
new subdivisions versus new companies. Mr. Maklem discussed how TIFs used for infrastructure improvements associated
with new subdivisions or companies further erode the Township’s revenue stream. There being no further public comment,
Mr. Jordan motioned to adjourn the 2027 Tax Budget Public Hearing at 7:18 p.m. Mr. Maklem second. Mr. Bainum - yea,
Mr. Maklem – yea, Mr. Jordan - yea.

Mr. Maklem motioned to adopt Resolution No. 2026-16 approving the 2027 Tax Budget and authorizing the Fiscal Officer to
submit the 2027 Tax Budget to the Clermont County Auditor. Mr. Bainum second. Mr. Bainum - yea, Mr. Maklem – yea,
Mr. Jordan - yea.

Mr. Bainum motioned to approve the minutes of the June 22, 2026 regular meeting. Mr. Jordan second. Mr. Bainum - yea,
Mr. Maklem – yea, Mr. Jordan - yea. Mr. Jordan motioned to approve the minutes of the July 1, 2026 special meeting. Mr.
Maklem second. Mr. Bainum - yea, Mr. Maklem – yea, Mr. Jordan - yea.

Mr. Lefferson presented a financial report, including a comprehensive account of expenditures and receipts, an appropriation
status report indicating year-to-date expenditures by account, and a revenue status report comparing budgeted revenue to
actual received, and the Trustees accepted it. Mr. Lefferson said the Township received the 2 nd quarter JEDD payment in the
amount of approximately $110,000. He indicated the Township also received an additional JEDD check in the amount of
approximately $88,000 that has been going into the wrong account at the Village of Williamsburg. Mr. Lefferson said he
needed to clarify with the Village what this represents.

Mr. Maklem motioned to approve the attached bills. Mr. Bainum second. Mr. Bainum - yea, Mr. Maklem – yea, Mr. Jordan -
yea.

Fiscal Officer Lefferson designated Chief McCarthy as the minute taker for the next regular Trustee Meeting scheduled for
Monday, July 27, 2026 in his planned absence.

                                                    Public Participation
Mr. Jordan opened the meeting for public participation. Mr. Boll asked about progress on the Land Use Plan. Mr. Jordan
indicated Drew DeMarsh from the County was preparing next steps and changes will take time. Mr. Boll asked about the
pending zone change request and should that wait until the Land Use Plan is done. Mr. Tatman said we already operate
under a Land Use Plan we have and the County indicated we should operate under that until the new one is done. Mr. Boll
asked about any tentative agreement on the CIC property in the Township. Mr. Maklem indicated that would be discussed
later in the meeting.
                        Williamsburg Township Board of Trustees Minutes
                                        July 13, 2026
                                                          Zoning Report
Mr. Tatman provided a report. On August 4th there will be a ZBA (Zoning Board of Appeals) Hearing for a Nestle Purina
monument sign. The Nestle Purina building signage already has zoning certificates issued. Mr. Tatman indicated he emailed
the Township attorney to check on the status of data center language and she was out of the office until July 13th so he
expects to hear back this week. Mr. Tatman discussed extending the moratorium on data centers for an additional six
months. Mr. Jordan motioned to approve adopting Resolution No. 2026-17 amending Resolution No. 2026-04 passed
January 26, 2026, regarding enacting a six-month moratorium on the receipt, processing, issuance or approval of any
application for a zoning certificate for a data center, extending the temporary moratorium to 12 months until 11:59 p.m. on
January 25, 2027. Mr. Bainum second. Mr. Bainum - yea, Mr. Maklem – yea, Mr. Jordan - yea. Mr. Tatman discussed the
tall grass repeat violation on Alexander Lane. In taking action earlier this year, a title search indicated the husband was
responsible. Mr. Tatman asked thoughts on another title search. Mr. Jordan indicated he was ok proceeding this time and
another title search could be done next time. Mr. Bainum motioned to adopt Resolution No. 2026-18 a resolution declaring
the property owned by Sharon L. Kirby and located at 4017 Alexander Lane, Batavia, Ohio 45103 in Williamsburg
Township, Clermont County, Ohio a nuisance, the second nuisance determination made by the Board for this property within
twelve consecutive months. Mr. Jordan second. Mr. Bainum - yea, Mr. Maklem – yea, Mr. Jordan - yea. Mr. Bainum
indicated he spoke with the Sheriff’s Department about the barking dog issue discussed previously and Sgt Bailey sent an
officer out. The Township’s Noise Resolution in relation to barking dogs was discussed. The Trustees recognized this is
difficult to monitor. Mr, Tatman said the Township should consider adding to the zoning code. Mr. Maklem asked about
establishing regularly scheduled zoning meetings. Mr. Tatman said he had not talked to the members yet. Mr. Maklem
asked about Mr. Malott’s complaint on vehicles on McKeever Road. Mr. Tatman indicated that when he has checked every
vehicle has a license plate. Mr. Bainum discussed the noise issue from cars squealing out in that area. Mr. Jordan voiced
concern for a problem that has been going on there for a couple of years with the volume of cars in front of the house and
rotating through. He said he does not believe the resident can operate a business in front of the house. Mr. Tatman indicated
he was not violating zoning. Mr. Jordan said then there is an opportunity to create language. Mr. Maklem said working on
vehicles and selling vehicles is a violation and we need to verify that to enforce zoning. There was discussion on repair,
services, and sales. Mr. Tatman indicated the Township needs photos and documentation. Mr. Tatman indicated he had
received no calls on cars at a Musgrove Road property. Mr. Jordan said there had been a complaint and asked Mr. Tatman to
send a letter. Mr. Jordan said we need to have a larger discussion as a team on seeing a violation and then enforcing it. Mr.
Maklem requested Mr. Tatman begin providing him with any minutes from zoning meetings so he can post them on the
website, adding this was not a high priority.

                                             Cemetery and Maintenance Report
Mr. Tatman provided a report. Blacktopping will occur the week of July 20th. This is full depth repair on Musgrove Road.
Mr. Tatman indicated the new backhoe has been delivered and is very nice and smoother to operate. Maintenance utilized it
to remove some debris on Ireton Road. Mr. Tatman indicated everything has been trimmed again in the cemeteries and they
are starting over trimming. With all the rain and then very hot temperatures, the grass is growing like it is still springtime.
Mr. Tatman indicated they can’t keep up with it. Mr. Maklem asked Mr. Tatman to take a look at the weeds around a stump
in the older part of the main cemetery and if we had a plan for some of the trees around the circle there. Mr. Tatman
estimated it would be $4,000 per tree to take down. Mr. Tatman informed the Trustees that more shelving would be installed
in the new maintenance building this week for more storage. He said signs have been ordered for Hageman Crossing and
Cobb Road and once they come in will be installed. Still waiting for Story Road to be marked for utilities then that sign can
be installed. The radar sign was on Dela Palma Road, Alexander Lane, and Half Acre Road. It will be moved to Bootjack
next and then Tollgate unless there is another request. Mr. Jordan indicated the next roads to consider for paving may be
Ireton or Todds Run. Mr. Maklem asked if there was a road inventory of when roads were last paved. Mr. Tatman indicated
there was and that he would provide it. Mr. Maklem indicated there was an issue on the berm at the intersection of Cobb
Road and Dela Palma Road turning right. Mr. Tatman indicated that was County responsibility but the Township has done it
before. Mr. Maklem asked him to take a look at it or call the County. Mr. Jordan indicated he and Mr. Tatman would look at
a grant for some work on Ireton Road.

                                                Emergency Services Report
Chief McCarthy provided a report. There were 62 Fire and 127 EMS calls for the month of June. Given the lead times for
new ambulances, Chief McCarthy had been asked to provide an estimate on the cost of a new one. Chief McCarthy reported
a cost of $369,767 and indicated that price was good for 60 days. Mr. Maklem asked about the current lead time. Chief
McCarthy indicated it was about 2.5 years. The Chief said he had no update on the ladder truck repairs. Chief McCarthy
informed the Trustees he attended a Law Enforcement Active Shooter Emergency Response Training at the Williamsburg
High School conducted by LSU and FEMA. His goal was to understand the strategy and tactics of law enforcement in order
to help emergency services response. Next year the focus of the training is on the emergency medical services side. Chief
                         Williamsburg Township Board of Trustees Minutes
                                         July 13, 2026
McCarthy requested approval to apply for the Norfolk and Southern Safety First Grant for funding to replace the Gator and
the Purina Foundation Grant for funds for the Engine capital improvement project. Mr. Jordan motioned to authorize Chief
McCarthy to apply for the Norfolk and Southern Safety First Grant for funding to replace the Gator . Mr. Bainum second.
Mr. Bainum - yea, Mr. Maklem – yea, Mr. Jordan - yea. Mr. Maklem motioned to authorize Chief McCarthy to apply for the
Purina Foundation Grant for funds for the Engine capital improvement project . Mr. Bainum second. Mr. Bainum - yea, Mr.
Maklem – yea, Mr. Jordan - yea. Chief McCarthy informed the Trustees the Township was not awarded the Firehouse Sub
Grant but that he will re-submit for it. Mr. Jordan said the run times look good.

                                                        Old Business
Mr. Maklem provided an update on the local solar project primarily in Jackson Township but which involves a portion of
Williamsburg Township. He indicated he had an update call with Drew Pierson of Savion (solar group) and Jackson
Township last Wednesday. Mr. Pierson indicated Savion had signed a letter of intent to sell to another company around mid-
September. Mr. Maklem provided a verbal update to Williamsburg Local Schools Superintendent Matt Early. Mr. Maklem
also indicated that prior proposed agreements with the School and Township were null and void because of State law changes
and the agreements were not finalized.

Mr. Bainum indicated he was in the early phases of exploring zip code changes where all addresses within Williamsburg
Township would use a Williamsburg zip code. There are some that use a Batavia zip code and some that use a Bethel zip
code.

                                                New Business
Mr. Maklem provided an update on the CRA (Community Reinvestment Area) along Half Acre Road and State Route 276.

Background:

    •    Feb 23, 2026, Township passed Resolution 2026-06 Requesting County to Establish CRA District
    •    Mar 9, 2026, County established CRA District for Williamsburg Township
    •    Clermont County Community Improvement Corporation, (CIC), along with Jobs Ohio – Redi Cincinnati signed a
         Letter of Intent for a Transformational Project with an International Advanced Manufacturing Company
    •    June 29, 2026, Ohio Department of Development Tax Credit Authority approved a 1.86%, 20-year Job Creation Tax
         Credit if project meets certain requirements and identified the project company as Lonza USA Inc.
    •    Lonza is a world leader in Contract Development and Manufacturing Organization (CDMO) serving the Healthcare
         Industry – manufacturing medicines
    •    Pending further due diligence and Lonza Board approval, potential to construct a new Biotech Manufacturing
         Facility in Williamsburg Township – 2 parcels on Half Acre Road at SR 276

There were two items on the original agenda for the meeting tonight associated with this CRA District:

              1.   Township Trustees to pass Resolution to have the County enter into a CRA Agreement with Lonza
              2.   Township Trustees to pass Resolution to have Williamsburg Township enter into a Compensation
                   Agreement

Due to ongoing discussions, we are not able to proceed with the two resolutions this evening and are not able to discuss
additional details.

Mr. Maklem informed everyone that there would be a Special Meeting this Wednesday, July 15th at 9:00 a.m. The first two
hours for the purpose of considering employment and compensation of public employees to be held in executive session, and
then at 11:00 a.m. there would be session open to the public for a virtual meeting with an ODOT consultant on the Half Acre
overpass.

There being no further business, Mr. Bainum motioned to adjourn at approximately 8:58 p.m. Mr. Jordan second. Mr.
Bainum - yea, Mr. Maklem – yea, Mr. Jordan - yea.
        Williamsburg Township Board of Trustees Minutes
                        July 13, 2026




___________________________________   ___________________________________
   Fiscal Officer                        Chairperson
