                                      AGENDA
                              COUNCIL MEETING AGENDA
                                 VILLAGE OF PERRY

                              Thursday – September 10, 2026

Regular Council Meeting 6:00PM

1.    Pledge of Allegiance (please silence cell phones):

2.    Call to Order/Roll Call: Curtis Curd, Brian Farley, Paul Hlabse, Pamela Jenkins, John
      Nicely, Rebecca “Becky” Shimko

3.    Good & Welfare- Proclamation for Samantha Hanson

4.    Public Comment: (Public to address comments and questions to Mayor and will be
      limited to 3 minutes. Mayor will decide if he would like Council or Employees to
      respond)

5.    Reading & Disposition of the Minutes:

      a.     Regular Council Meeting 8/13/26 (emailed 9/4/2026)
      b.     Special Council Meeting 8/26/26 (emailed 9/4/2026)

6.    Legislation:


      Resolution 40-2026 (First Reading; recommendation to suspend the Three-Reading
      Rule)
      A resolution authorizing the Mayor and Fiscal Officer to enter into a supplemental
      contract with Civil and Environmental Consultants, Inc. for additional engineering
      services related to the 2025 Center Road Drainage Improvements Project, and declaring
      an emergency.
      Resolution 41-2026 (First Reading; recommendation to suspend the Three-Reading
      Rule)
      A resolution authorizing the Mayor to enter into a supplemental contract with SBJ
      Consulting, LLC for additional professional engineering services for the Year 2026, and
      declaring an emergency.
      Resolution 42-2026 (First Reading; recommendation to suspend the Three-Reading Rule,
      Statutory Deadline of October 1)
      A Resolution accepting the Amounts and Rates as Determined by the Budget
      Commission and Authorizing the Necessary Tax Levies and Certifying them to the
      County Auditor
     Resolution 43-2026 (First Reading; recommendation to suspend the Three-Reading
     Rule)
     A resolution amending Resolution No. 51-2025 and approving the Permanent
     Appropriations Funds for the Village of Perry, Ohio for the Year 2026 and declaring an
     emergency.
     Resolution 44-2026 (First Reading; recommendation to suspend the Three-Reading
     Rule)
     A resolution authorizing the promotion of Officer John Jacobson to Full-Time Patrolman
     of the Village of Perry Police Department and declaring an emergency
     Ordinance No. 2026-13 (Second Reading)
     An Ordinance enacting a one-year moratorium on the acceptance and approval of
     applications for data centers within the Village of Perry, excluding the property known as
     “Champion Farm,” and declaring an emergency.
7.   Reports:
     a.     Mayor:

     b.     Solicitor:

     c.     Engineer: Robert B. Parker, P.E.

     d.     Fiscal Officer: Financial Report

     e.     Police Chief:

     f.     Public Works:

     g.     Zoning:

     h.     Economic Development:
               - JEDD/PEDC
               - Planning Commission

     i.     Council Members:

            Curtis Curd –
            Brian Farley –
            Paul Hlabse –
            Pamela Jenkins –
            John Nicely –
            Rebecca “Becky” Shimko –
8.    Purchases & Approvals:

      a. Approval of Purchases- August 7 through September 3

9.    Discussion and vote on Second Regular Council Meeting (requested by Mayor)

10.   Public Comment (comments may be directed to the Mayor or Council members only,
      may pertain to any topic specifically discussed at this meeting, and will be limited to
      3 minutes):

11.   Executive Sessions (if needed):
      (a) To consider the appointment, employment, dismissal, discipline, promotion,
          demotion, or compensation of a public employee or official.

      (b) To consider confidential information related to the marketing plans, specific business
          strategy, production techniques, trade secrets, or personal financial statements of an
          applicant for economic development assistance, or to negotiations with other political
          subdivisions respecting requests for economic development assistance.

12.   Adjournment:

The next Regular Council Meeting will be Thursday, September 24 at 6:00 PM (pending
Council Vote).

                      Called by: Mayor Elias Coss                Posted
