VUUE

RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS

Minutes of Jerome Township Board of Trustees Meeting
Public Hearing -
COVERNANENT FORT SUPPLIES 45 205-3558 FORO. 16S
Held March 17,2026 20
Case No. ZT25-002

Application for a Zoning Amendment

The Board of Township Trustees of Jerome Township, Union County, Ohio met in special session on
March 17, 2026, at 7:49 p.m. for a public hearing continued from March 3,2026. Board Chairman Barry
Adler called the meeting to order. Lonnie (Joe) Craft, Barry Adler, and Andrea Watson answered the roll
call, Also in attendance were Robert Caldwell (Fiscal Officer), Brandon Standley (Township
Administrator), Eric Snowden (Zoning Inspector/Coordinator), Peter Griggs (Brosius, Johnson &
Griggs), and members of the public,

‘The Jerome Township Board of Trustees continued public hearing. The application, initiated by The
Board of Trustees, requests zoning amendments related to the Zoning Resolution.

Public Comment
During public comment the following concerns were raised:
¢ Increased density from two to six houses per acre.
* Infrastructure concerns.
¢ Noise concerns with sound waves travelling as for a two- and one-half miles.
« Property values

Brad Bodenmiller, Director of the LUC Regional Planning Commission, addressed the Board. He
stated the LUC had approved the application with modifications suggesting language regarding joining
the JEDD before zoning be removed. He explained to the public the difference between prohibiting
verses regulating a use along with permitted uses verses conditional uses.

It was moved by Joe Craft and seconded by Barry Adler that the Board of Township Trustees of
Jerome Township adopt the following motion:

The Jerome Township Board of Trustees close public comment in the hearing of Case No.
2125-002.

The vote resulted as follows:
Barry Adler, yes
Lonnie (Joe) Craft, yes
Andrea Watson, yes
The motion carried.

Eric Snowden provided the Board with a summary of the substantive revisions made since the prior
meeting.

« The permitted density permitted for residential dwellings in certain subareas of the IPD District
has been reduced from six units per acre to three units per acre.

* Additional screening and buffering regulations applicable to data centers have been added,
including a regulation requiring mounds no less than ten (10) feet in height.

* The definition of data center provided for in Chapter 525 was revised to correspond with the
definition being provided as a model from the LUC Regional Planning Commission.

¢ General revisions to Chapter 620 — Landscaping, Screening, and Buffering have been made that
will clarify certain development standards for landscaping for all land uses regulated by the
Zoning Resolution.

* In addition to designating data centers as a conditional use in all standard zoning districts where
they are currently designated a permitted use, this revised version increases the setbacks of data
centers from residential uses and districts to 300 feet.

Barry Adler noted that in response to feedback heard during public comment, feedback provided from the
Director of the LUC Planning Commission, and information obtained from other sources the Board made
revisions specifically addressing concerns by increasing setbacks, mounding and buffering.

Joe Craft indicated that this process has been going on since February 2025. He stated the density of
three units per acre was a compromise between the six requested and the four recommended.

Board of Trustee Action
It was moved by Barry Adler and seconded by Joe Craft that the Board of Township Trustees of
Jerome Township adopt the following motion:

The Jerome Township Board of Trustees adopt Resolution 26-021 A Resolution to Render a
Decision on a Proposed Amendment to the Zoning Resolution and Official Zoning Map of
Jerome Township, Union County, Ohio, Case No. ZT25-002 the recommendation of the Jerome
Township Zoning Commission to approve this proposed amendment to the Official Zoning
Map, be and hereby is adopted by the Board, therefore approving the amendment.



oU0c
RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS

Minutes of Jerome Township Board of Trustees Meeting

Public Hearing

‘GOVERIUHENT FORUS & SUPPLIES 644-221-0308 FORIANO, 1018

Held March-17,2026 20

The vote resulted as follows:
Lonnie (Joe) Craft, yes
Barry Adler, yes
Andrea Watson, yes
The motion carried, (Res. 26-021)

At 8:43 p.m. it was moved by Barry Adler and seconded by Joe Craft that the Jerome Township
Board of Trustees adjourn. The motion carried.

Ba Adler, Chairman

Robert Caldwell, Fiscal Officer

