6.

7.

9.

10.

11.

12.

RITTMAN CITY COUNCIL — AGENDA
REGULAR MEETING
Monday, April 13, 2026 at 7:00 p.m.

Invocation

Pledge of Allegiance

Roll Call

Approval of Minutes

a.

March 23, 2026

Citizens Forum

Old Business

Ord. No. 8519 An Ordinance of the Council of the City of Rittman, Wayne and
Medina Counties and State of Ohio, enacting a 180 day moratorium on the receipt,
processing, issuance, and approval of any application for a zoning certificate for
NAICS 518- Data Processing, Hosting, and related services (Data Centers) under the
city’s planning and zoning code; declaring an emergency. Third Reading.

New Business

a.

Ord. No. 8520 An Ordinance of the Council of the City of Rittman, Wayne and
Medina Counties and State of Ohio, amending the Annual Appropriation Ordinance
No. 8492, as amended according to the attached sheet(s) and declaring an emergency.
Three Readings.

Res. No. 8521 A Resolution of the Council of the City of Rittman, Wayne and Medina
Counties and State of Ohio, authorizing the Municipal Manager to advertise for and
accept bids for the South Main Street Waterline Improvement Project and declaring
an emergency. Three Readings.

City Manager’s Remarks

Finance Director’s Remarks

a.

Approval of Financial Report for March, 2026

Second Citizens Forum

Council Remarks

Adjournment


RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS

Minutes of Council Meeting

DAYTON LEGAL BLANK, ING., FORM NO. 10148

Held March 23, 20__ 26

Rittman City Council Met in a
REGULAR MEETING
Monday, March 23, 2026
7:00 p.m.

Members Present: Don Sweigert, Sonya Hayward, Amanda Nelson, Rich Schumacher,
Melissa Shows and Nick Huff
Members Absent: None

Presiding: Acting Mayor Rich Schumacher

The invocation was given by Ryan Klotzle, Pastor at Christ Church followed by the
pledge of allegiance.

Approval of Minutes

a. March 9, 2026. Shows moved to approve, all Yeas on roll call and motion
carried.

Citizens Forum

Ron Tisher — 294 Winkler — Attended to confirm that Brightspeed responded to his
issue

Old Business

a. Ord. No. 8513 An Ordinance of the Council of the City of Rittman,
Wayne and Medina Counties and State of Ohio, amending Section 121.03 Order of

Business; Rules of Court of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Rittman. Second
Reading. Ord. No. 8513 was read on second reading. Sweigert moved to adopt. Hayward
inquired if citizens could speak before passing legislation on the third reading. Sweigert
stated that if it goes the full three readings then the citizens have had a chance to comment.
If the rules are suspended, I think if you have citizens forum at the beginning if it states in
the agenda that we are going to have on all three readings. They have the time to discuss.
If we suspend the rules, they should have time to ask questions. Simpson replied that the
Mayor can ask for comments from the floor. All Yeas on roll call and motion carried.

b. Ord. No. 8514 An Ordinance of the Council of the City of Rittman,
Wayne and Medina Counties and State of Ohio, amending Section 991.10 Charges and
Fees of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Rittman. Second Reading. Ord. No.
8513 was read on second reading. Nelson moved to adopt, upon roll call Sweigert — No,

Hayward — Yes, Nelson — Yes, Schumacher — Yes, Shows — Yes, Huff — Yes, roll call and
motion carried.

c Ord, No. 8519 An Ordinance of the Council of the City of Rittman,

Wayne and Medina Counties and state of Ohio, Enacting a 180-day moratorium on the
receipt, processing issuance and approval of any application for a zoning certificate for

NAICS 518 — Data Processing, Hosting and related services (Data Centers) under the
City’s Planning and Zoning Code; and declaring an emergency. Second Reading. Ord.

No. 8519 was read on second reading. Nelson moved to place on third. Hayward inquired

if more information was found. Beshara replied she is looking into it. All Yeas on roll call
and motion carried.

New Business

a. Motion to approve the placement of farmland in an Agricultural District
for Parcel No. 63-01184.000 located within the City of Rittman and owned by Bishop



RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS

Minutes of council Meeting

DAYTON LEGAL BLANK, INC., FORM NO. 10148

Held_ March 23, 20_26

of Roman Catholic Diocese of Cleveland. . Sweigert moved to approve, all Yeas on roll
call and motion carried.

City Manager’s Remarks

In the Service Department we have replaced one employee and hired a new employee
which is in our budget; both of them will start in a week or two. Kris Fetter is retiring. She
doesn’t want any fan fair. Kris does a great job on our website, keeping it up. She is an
amazing employee. She does so much with the Chamber and she is just an all around great
person. We are going to miss her like crazy. The Police Department was given a donation
of $800.00 from the Eagles and with that money they are buying ballistic shields. Shows
stated that Officer Hunter secured the $800.00 and it is earmarked for ballistic shields to go
in every car. They are hand held. With the two that we have from the old SWAT Team, we
purchased one just to make sure it is what we wanted, and we are going the purchase five
more. Huff inquired what the life span is. Shows stated the company will warranty it for
five years. Beshara stated that we want to thank the Eagles for donating that $800.00. Bob
has done a great job with the TNR Program. We have had close to 60 cats being trapped,
neutered and returned. Some of them, when they are kittens they do not come back and are
put in foster homes for adoption. That is huge for a community because they multiply so
quickly. I’m really grateful to Bob and Jesse. Darilee McGregor keeps them in her garage
until they are ready to be transported or back to nature. I just want to say thank you for
everyone working on that program.

Finance Director’s Remarks

Nothing tonight.
Council Remarks

Sweigert — nothing tonight.

Shows — I also have nothing other than to thank everyone for coming out tonight for
this brief meeting. There wasn’t much tonight.

Huff — thanks for coming out. The fire department is having an Easter Bunny
breakfast on Saturday.

Hayward — I want to thank everybody for coming out.

Nelson — we had our Bags and Blooms Bingo for the Beautification Initiative. It was
the Beautification Committee but now it is the Downtown Rittman Beautification Initiative
because we just changed to our own 501(c)(3) separate from the Chamber. We had 120
people, which is the maximum number of people we could have at that facility. We were
sold out. We had 20 purses that we gave away. We had 50ish gift cards and baskets to do
as door prizes. It was the best event we have ever had. All of what we have raised is going
to the downtown revitalization projects that we do, which is more than likely going to go to
the pots this year. It was a good event. We had a lot of people from out of town and it was
great to see everybody coming together for us. This week we are celebrating America’s
250 through the America 250 Ohio Commission since we are a recognized community.
This month is movies and entertainment. We are holding a free movie night at the Rec
Center on Thursday. We are watching Utopia 2. There will be free popcorn and pop. That
is at 7:00 p.m. and Sunday is the Easter Basket giveaway for the Chamber, that will be from
1:00 to 3:00 or until we run out of baskets. Morton Salt donated around 100 baskets. My
daughter and the kids at the Rec Center put together about 100 more. We received our 250
Flag from America 250 Ohio Commission to recognize us as a community.

Schumacher — my wife had a great time at the purse bingo. It was a fantastic event.
I want to thank everyone for showing up for tonight’s meeting. The Lions Easter Egg hunt
is Saturday at Calvary Baptist and Morton Salt treats us. good too. They are just really good
for the community overall. They gave us 5,600 eggs. We have close to 15,000 eggs. The
age groups are 1 — 4, 5 — 8 or 9 and the up to 16. The Easter Bunny is going to stop by. We


RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS

Minutes of Council Meeting

DAYTON LEGAL BLANK, ING., FORM NO. 10148

Held March 23, 20_26

had our first meeting for the Rittman Community Parade. It will be on July 23, Thursday
evening. The theme is going to be Americas 250. I would encourage groups to participate.

Adjourn: 7:22 p.m. Hayward moved to adjourn, all Yeas on roll call and motion
carried.

Mayor

Clerk of Council


RECORD OF ORDINANCES

Ordinance No. __ 8519 Passed: , 2026

ORDINANCE NO. 8519

AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RITTMAN, WAYNE AND
MEDINA COUNTIES AND STATE OF OHIO, ENACTING A 180 DAY MORATORIUM ON
THE RECEIPT, PROCESSING, ISSUANCE, AND APPROVAL OF ANY APPLICATION FOR
A ZONING CERTIFICATE FOR NAICS 518-DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING, AND RELATED
SERVICES (DATA CENTERS) UNDER THE CITY’S PLANNING AND ZONING CODE; AND
DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.

WHEREAS, the City has determined it is in the best interest of the City and its residents to adopt
an ordinance enacting a 180 day moratorium on the receipt, processing, issuance, and approval of any
application for a zoning certificate for NAICS 518-data processing, hosting, and related services (Data
Centers); and

WHEREAS, due to concerns relating to data centers the City recognizes that the Planning and
Zoning Code needs to be reviewed and updated to ensure proper development can occur within the City
and that the City has the necessary processes, resources and infrastructure in place to address such growth
and demand for data centers; and

NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Council of the City of Rittman, Counties of Wayne and
Medina and State of Ohio, two-thirds of all members elected and appointed thereto concurring:

SECTION ONE

This Council believes it is in the best interest of the City to institute a 180 day moratorium on the
receipt, processing, issuance, and approval of any application for a zoning certificate for NAICS 518-data

processing, hosting, and related services (Data Centers). This moratorium is necessary to ensure such


RECORD OF ORDINANCES

Ordinance No. __ 8519 Passed: » 2026

future developments align with the intent of the City and its residents, to ensure proper development can
occur within the City and that the City has the necessary processes, resources and infrastructure in place
to address such growth and demand for data centers and that such interests are a legitimate public interest
necessary to protect the public health, safety and general welfare.
SECTION TWO
The Council may rescind this moratorium at any time prior to the expiration of the 180
days.
SECTION THREE
This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, and safety of the City due to the dangers and complications that
NAICS 518-data processing, hosting and related services (Data Centers) pose to the City’s residents and
shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval or otherwise take effect and be in

full force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Passed: , 2026

Mayor
Attest:

Clerk of Council
