BROOKLYN CITY COUNCIL
September 8, 2025
Regular meeting 7:00 pm

President Kathy Pucci called the meeting to order.

Roll Call:

Present:        Aaron Borowski, Kevin Tanski, Sue Grodek, Kathy Pucci, Steven Coyle, Andy Celcherts,
                Matt Mosley
Absent:         None.

Pledge of Allegiance.

Opening Remarks:
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:

MOTION by Borowski, second by Celcherts to approve the minutes of June 23, 2025. VOTE RESULTED:
To approve: Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. (APPROVED)

MOTION by Borowski, second by Celcherts to approve the SPECIAL minutes of July 17, 2025. VOTE
RESULTED: To approve: Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci, Coyle. No: None. Abstain: Celcherts,
Mosley (APPROVED)

PUBLIC SESSION #1 relating to legislative items:

None.

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS:

Committee of the Whole (Councilwoman Pucci): Pres. Pucci stated that under Notifications: Fire Department
was awarded the Norfolk Southern Railroad Safety Grant for $15,000.00; used for equipment on our utility
vehicle. There are 2 requests for Conditional Use Permits; Panda Express and Chipotle (both drive thrus).
Committee addressed the following legislation: Res No. 2025-20: needs submitted to the County–September 8,
2025 deadline–17 owners with high grass that did not comply-city cut grass on these properties totaling $2700;
Res No. 2025-21: current moratorium expires September 8, 2025; Res No. 2025-22: current moratorium expires
September 8, 2025; Res No. 2025-23: The committee recommended amending to appoint Kathy Pucci as
Councilmember and from this meeting to next the information will be posted for a resident and an addiction
specialist; Res No. 2025-26: suspension of the rules so that this Committee can begin meeting; Ord. No. 2025-
16: suspension of the rules so that the earliest publication and distribution of our Code legislation to our vendor
for codification; Ord. No. 2025-17: suspension of the rules so that there is consistency within our Codified
Ordinances and City Personnel Policy manual; Ord. No. 2025-18: required to go to Board of Control for
approval; Ord. No. 2025-19: currently policy expired on September 25, 2025, additionally has to go to Board
of Control and price increase of $15k from last year (2024); Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce Home Days:
Council will use discretionary funds to be a Bronze sponsor ($500.00).

Recreation Board (Councilman Tanski): Councilman Tanski stated the following: Brooklyn Youth basketball
(3-6 yrs) runs November 2025 through March 2026 – volunteers and coaches needed; Brooklyn Senior Center:
Bingo with Avenue, luncheons, mystery lunch, ice cream social, bingo with King David Campus.
MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
BROOKLYN CITY COUNCIL
September 8, 2025

Domestic Relations Commission (Councilman Borowski): Councilman Borowski stated that the next
Domestic Relations Committee meeting will be September 10, 2025 at 6:00 p.m. Table will be set up at Home
Days on September 27, 2025.

Board of Zoning Appeals (Councilwoman Grodek): Councilwoman Grodek stated the following: BZA
approved a variance request from Freeman Builders for a setback to be reduced by 20', from current of 50' to
proposed 30' at 9900 Clinton Rd; approved a variance request to reduce minimum rear setback from the
required 35 ft to 31’-5”at 4232 Brookway Lane; approved a variance request to build a garage less than the
minimum required size of 440 sq ft at 4232 Brookway Lane; approved a request from Sunny Kubalt at 4592
Sunset Oval to move a 12 x 15ft shed 7 ft to a new locations.

The next Board of Zoning Appeals meeting will be September 18, 2025 at 6:00 p.m.

Planning Commission (Councilwoman Grodek): Councilwoman Grodek stated that Planning Commission
approved the following: a Preliminary Site Plan Approval request from Freeman Building Systems to add a
53,000 SF warehouse addition at 7700 Clinton Rd; Preliminary Site Plan Approval request from Freeman
Building Systems to add a 10,000 SF office addition at 9900 Clinton Rd; Preliminary Site Plan Approval
request from Barrington Consulting Group, to build a residential subdivision at 7476 Memphis Ave. -8707
Memphis Ave. Parcel 431-17-117, located on Rabbit Run Drive; request for final site plan approval for Panda
Express at 10814 Brookpark Road; approved a Final Site Plan Approval request from Barrington Consulting
Group, to build a residential subdivision at:7476 Memphis Ave., 8707 Memphis Ave. Parcel 431-17-117,
located on Rabbit Run Drive; Final Site Plan Approval request from Freeman Building Systems to add a
10,000 SF office addition at 9900 Clinton Rd; Final Site Plan Approval request from Freeman Building
Systems to add a 53,000 SF warehouse addition at 7700 Clinton Rd; Final Site Plan Approval request to open
a Culver’s at 5080 Tiedeman Road; request from APD Engineering for conditional use for a Drive Through
for a Panda Express at 10814 Brookpark Road; request for conditional use approval for Culver's drive thru

The next Planning Commission meeting will be October 8, 2025 at 6:00 p.m.

School Board Liaison (Councilman Mosley): Councilman Mosley stated the School Board has been busy
over the summer and many improvements have been made and additions in the District; hiring a new K-7
principal (Janet Kubicek). The Brooklyn Early Child and Family Resource Center has had a delay due to
HVAC system being delayed; will be installed this month. The hope is for the center to be open for preschool
students on September 29th with the Grand Opening October 24th. The stadium complex renovations have been
completed and the gym is the next to be finished with a completion in December 2025. Superintendent Caleris
has coffee chats scheduled to meet; 10/9 from 4-6 p.m. and 10/18 at 9 a.m. Hall of Fame Induction ceremony
on 9/11 at 6 p.m., home football game on 9/12, 4th annual College and Career Resource Fair on 10/9, school
board meeting on 9/16 at 6:15 p.m.

Connecting and Belonging Commission (Councilman Coyle): Councilman Coyle stated that the Connecting
and Belonging Commission met twice over the summer. During those meetings, members continued their
discussion on various ideas, with particular focus on researching holidays and national celebrations that are or
are not currently recognized and celebrated by the city. They also discussed how they can connect with various
stakeholders within the community and leverage services to open new opportunities for our residents. In
addition, the commission is considering the possibility of participating in this year’s Home Days festivities.

The next Connecting and Belonging Commission will be September 16th at 6:00 p.m.




                                                       2
MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
BROOKLYN CITY COUNCIL
September 8, 2025

REPORTS OF COUNCIL:

Aaron Borowski: Councilman Borowski stated he is glad to be back doing business for the residents. He
wishes the Brooklyn students a well and wonderful school year. He thanked all departments for all of their
efforts that were put in over the summer.

Kevin Tanski: Councilman Tanski stated he hoped all residents had a great summer and welcomed back all
City Councilmembers. Brooklyn Home Days will be held on September 27th and September 28th at the
Brooklyn stadium. He wished to thank all departments, esp. Building. He has been receiving many Building
Department calls.

Sue Grodek: Councilwoman Grodek stated she wished to thank the residents that joined the Council in the
Park evenings.; great time to speak with residents on a more informal venue. Since we are heading into fall,
odd number years are considered local elections; reminder that this will include Councilmembers and School
Board members this year. Election Day is November 4, 2025, with early voting beginning October 10th. There
will be a candidates’ forum on September 17th at 7p.m. at the Senior Center; 3 candidates running for School
Board and 5 candidates that are running for City Council.

Steven Coyle: Councilman Coyle stated that the summer moved by rather quickly and welcome back to
everyone. He thanked the various department directors that he reached out to on behalf of residents’ concerns
this summer; thank you to Marty Rini and the Service Department for responding within 24 hours to a
resident’s tree lawn tree complaint. We are very fortunate to have such a great team of service workers, along
with our safety forces; a resident on Traymore reached out regarding the new chicanes, signage, and/or lack
of signage. He has heard both positive and negative feedback. These new traffic calming devices were installed
by a subcontractor who was not very detail oriented. The Mayor along with our engineer, Mike Henry, are
still working with the contractor to ensure that our standards are met.

Andy Celcherts: Councilman Celcherts stated Keep Brooklyn Beautiful ran this summer another home
decorating gardening contest. The winners were 4374 Newberry, 4564 Winter Lane, 4723 Southwood, 4704
Summer Lane, 4742 Bentwood, 4576 Forest Edge and 9812 Memphis Villas Blvd; the Cleveland Restoration
Society’s Heritage Home Program is holding an in-person information session at the Brooklyn Branch of the
Cuyahoga County Public Library on September 18th at 5:30 PM at 7619 Memphis Ave. Congratulations to the
service department but also to the residents for increasing our recycling percentage; September 27 and
September 28 the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce will be hosting Home Days. There will be a car show on
Saturday. There will be entertainment Saturday along with food trucks and fireworks at the end of the day.
Sunday will be a continuation of the Big Band Blowout that is organized by Liz and Eric Dregne; FirstEnergy
started working on Glencoe with the additional street lights. From there the rest of the east side of Ridge from
Delora to Traymore will be done. Delora is done. Northcliff not even started. The rest of the streets consisting
of Vadalia, Ira, and Traymore have a few more to be added. Another list to get quotes on 17 additional fixtures
has been submitted. These would be additions to existing poles.

Matt Mosley: Councilman Mosley stated he hoped all residents had a joyous summer. He has been working
hard getting the YES Committee up and running; last Council meeting, Council amended the age limit from
14-17 to 13-17 and he was able to get many young people in the community interested. We have enough
interest to get this Committee formed and he is looking forward to the members sharing their ideas and make
Brooklyn a better place. There are still spaces open for more members to join. The Brooklyn Chamber of
Commerce is hosting Home Days and hopes it is well attended. He thanked Council for agreeing to sponsor
Home Days and looks forward to seeing Councilmembers and residents.

Kathy Pucci: Pres. Pucci stated she would like to offer her condolences on behalf of Council to John Verba,
Jr. (Service Director) on the passing of his father. School is back in session; be aware of school zones, right
                                                       3
MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
BROOKLYN CITY COUNCIL
September 8, 2025

turn on red and students that are going to and from school. The post prom is looking for donations; senior class
fireworks at Senior Night football game; contact Michelle Hilcu at mhilcu824@gmail.com or any
Councilmember.

MAYOR’S REPORT:

Mayor Ron Van Kirk: The Mayor stated the following: 2025 Paving Program: The project included work
on Idlewood (S) and Spring Crest (N). This included resurfacing, base repairs, and sidewalk repairs. It came
under budget and work is completed; Memphis & Tiedeman Turn Lane: The contractor has completed the
work for the turn lane; I-480 & Tiedeman Landscaping Phase II: Everlast Landscape Group LLC is coming
back this month to replace the dead plants and redo the seeding on the west bound on ramp; Recreational
Facility Planning: The architect has the preliminary layout and outside improvements finished. We will be
having the interviews with the two CMAR contractors that submitted proposals and anticipate having a
recommendation by September 19th, project will start March 2026 to Jan-Feb 2027; Brookpark Road ROW
Improvements: The proposed tree lawn/behind the curb line improvements have been completed by the
property owners. City did not have to expend funds for this. We have two property owners that still need to
have grass to be established; Western & Eastern City Entrance Memphis Ave: They have completed the
work on the east and west ends of Memphis. They still have to maintain the area behind the plantings and pull
weeds. Gateway signs for these two locations are on the 2026 Capital Budget list; Traffic Calming Practice:
Specialized installed the speed tables and the chicanes are almost finished. Letters went out to all residents in
these areas. The installation of the chicanes has been a point of contention with the city and the contractor.
Mayor is very displeased on how long this is taking. Mr. Henry is working diligently with the contractor to
get everything completed and properly adjusted. These are temporary, as mentioned in the letter. A large
complaint in that area of town has been speeding for years and the city is attempting to solve that problem.
Adjustments will have to be made to these with the contractor putting some of these in the wrong location.
Signage has not gone up and they have not painted. The idea of the chicanes is to see if this helps with the
speeding problem on a temporary basis with extensive research beforehand. Data collectors will then go back
and see if the traffic calming is successful in these areas and if they are successful, they will become more
permanent; Cleveland Water Department Lining Project: The project has begun on Ridge Road. Phase I
will be completed by the end of the year (Memphis to Biddulph). Phase II will start early in 2026 and be
completed by the summer; I480 & Ridge Off & On Ramp Reconstruction: The off-ramp reconstruction for
both the east and west off ramps will take place this year. The west bound off ramp has been completed and
they are working on the east bound off ramp. The east bound off ramp will be finished by October; Dog Park:
The construction is about 90% complete and under budget. The light pole and final signage for parking is
outstanding. Ribbon Cutting will be on October 16, 2025 at 10:00 a.m.; Master Plan Update City-Wide
Survey: The survey went live this morning. Here is the link to the Master Plan Update home page
(countyplanning.us/brooklyn25). This information is also in the Newsletter that will hit homes next week, and
we will be posting information boards at the Recreation Center and Senior Center about the update and the
survey. He encourages residents to click on the link or scan the QR Code. The county Planning Commission
has done a fantastic job of giving an update on where we stand on the 2020 Master Plan. There were 5 goals
that were laid out and 37 action items and the city has accomplished a large number of those. That is attributed
to the hard work of Council and support of the residents. We do not want the plan to go stagnant. Will take
10-20 minutes to complete online. Hard copies of the survey will be made available at the Senior Center,
Recreation Center and City Hall starting on Monday. The survey is open through October 17; Townhomes:
The developers have received final site plan approval for all three locations from the Planning Commission.
They are currently working with the Division of Water and Sewer District to get final plan approvals. They
hope to be breaking ground this year. They are starting on Memphis South (across from Westbrook Apts.)
They would like to have the access road completed this year. There will be a total of 62 new homes built in
the city; We will be making a conditional offer to one police officer from the lateral list approved earlier this
year. We will also be giving another Civil Service test later in the year; We have made a conditional offer to
a firefighter to replace one of our firefighters who retired; Mayor thanked Councilman Celcherts on the
                                                       4
MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
BROOKLYN CITY COUNCIL
September 8, 2025

lighting project and this is a work in progress; The Senior Grass Cutting programs wrapped up a couple
of weeks ago. I have heard nothing but very positive remarks about the program. It has been over a decade
since the city has had this and he believes there were around 80 residents participating this year. He anticipates
it growing next season. Community Gatherings have been hosted and thanked the residents that attended.
Mayor met with Dr. Caleris and was able to walk through the school and gym area. He is excited to see these
projects completed and also to open the new Pre-K building where the old library was.

DIRECTORS REPORTS:

None.
NOTIFICATONS:

Fire Department was awarded the Norfolk Southern Railroad Safety Grant for $15,000.00.

COUNCIL APPROVAL:

Granting a Conditional Use Permit to Panda Express/APD Engineering for a drive-thru to be located at 10814
Brookpark Road, PPN 433-16-002; approved by Planning Comm on August 6, 2025. MOTION by Celcherts,
second by Borowski to approve. VOTE RESULTED: To approve: Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci,
Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. (APPROVED)

Granting a Conditional Use Permit to Culver's/Kimley-Horn Inc. for a drive-thru to be located at 5080
Tiedeman Road, PPN 433-09-015; approved by Planning Comm on September 3, 2025. MOTION by
Celcherts, second by Mosley to approve. VOTE RESULTED: To approve: Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek,
Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. (APPROVED)

City Council to be a Bronze sponsor for the Brooklyn Home Days sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce
from the discretionary funds. MOTION by Mosley, second by Tanski to approve. VOTE RESULTED: To
approve: Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Mosley. No: None. Abstain: Celcherts (APPROVED)

LEGISLATION:

NEW BUSINESS:

RESOLUTION NO. 2025-20 (1st reading/request suspension/adoption): A Resolution assessing unpaid costs
of abating nuisance and hazard violations of Section 521.14 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Brooklyn, Ohio, and declaring an emergency. MOTION by Coyle, second by Tanski to suspend the rules.
VOTE RESULTED: To suspend the rules: Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley.
No: None. MOTION by Coyle, second by Tanski to adopt. To adopt: Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci,
Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. (ADOPTED)

RESOLUTION NO. 2025-21 (1st reading/request suspension/adoption): A Resolution extending a
moratorium imposed by Resolution 2025-5 on the granting of building permits for any building, structure, use
or change of use that would enable establishments that sell or distribute vape, unregulated cannabis and
tobacco sales in the City of Brooklyn, Ohio until March 10, 2026, and declaring an emergency. MOTION by
Grodek, second by Celcherts to introduce by all, suspend the rules. VOTE RESULTED: To suspend the rules:
Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. To adopt: Yes: Borowski, Tanski,
Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. (ADOPTED)

RESOLUTION NO. 2025-22 (1st reading/request suspension/adoption): A Resolution extending a
moratorium imposed by Resolution 2025-6 on the operation of, and the acceptance and processing or granting
                                                        5
MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
BROOKLYN CITY COUNCIL
September 8, 2025

of applications for zoning, occupancy and/or building permit approvals for, adult use cannabis operators in
the City of Brooklyn, Ohio through March 10, 2026, and declaring an emergency. MOTION by Borowski,
second by Tanski to introduce by all, suspend the rules. VOTE RESULTED: To suspend the rules: Yes:
Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None To adopt: Yes: Borowski, Tanski,
Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. (ADOPTED)

RESOLUTION NO. 2025-23 (1st reading/request suspension/adoption): A Resolution appointing a
Councilmember, a citizen and an addiction specialist to serve on the Opioid Settlement Advisory Task Force,
and declaring an emergency. Pres. Pucci stated the resident and addiction specialist will be added at the meeting
of September 22, 2025. MOTION by Coyle, second by Tanski to amend appointing Kathy Pucci as
Councilmember. VOTE RESULTED: To amend: Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts,
Mosley. No: None (AMENDED) (Placed on first reading)

RESOLUTION NO. 2025-24 (1st reading): A Resolution requesting the County Fiscal Officer to advance taxes
from the proceeds of the 2025 tax levies pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code Section 321.34, and declaring an
emergency. Pres. Pucci stated that this Resolution is for the city to receive property tax disbursements from the
County beginning in early 2026. (Placed on second reading)

RESOLUTION NO. 2025-25 (1st reading): A Resolution accepting the amounts and rates as determined by the
Budget Commission and authorizing the necessary tax levies and certifying them to the County Fiscal Officer.
Pres. Pucci stated the city submitted tax bill in July 2025 for 2026 to the Budget Commission and after approval
we are accepting amounts and rates that were approved; no increase in property taxes and will remain at 5.9
Mill. (Placed on second reading)

RESOLUTION NO. 2025-26 (1st reading/request suspension/adoption): A Resolution appointing members
to serve on the Youth Engagement and Succession (Yes) Committee, and declaring an emergency. Pres. Pucci
stated that Council received 5 letters of interest. Councilman Mosley stated that a correction is needed in the
name CORY YANKOVITZ; should read CORA YANKOVITZ. Also, he wished to thank the youth that
reached out to volunteer. MOTION by Grodek, second by Tanski to introduce by all, suspend the rules. VOTE
RESULTED: To suspend the rules: Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No:
None. To adopt: Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. (ADOPTED)

ORDINANCE NO. 2025-16 (1st reading/request suspension/adoption): An Ordinance to approve the 2025
replacement pages to the Brooklyn Codified Ordinances, and declaring an emergency. MOTION by Celcherts,
second by Coyle to introduce by all, suspend the rules. VOTE RESULTED: To suspend the rules: Yes:
Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. To adopt: Yes: Borowski, Tanski,
Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. (ADOPTED)

ORDINANCE NO. 2025-17 (1st reading/request suspension/adoption): An Ordinance amending Section
149.16 of the Brooklyn Codified Ordinances, maximum hours for part-time employees, in order to harmonize
the language of that Section with the City Personnel Policy Manual, and declaring an emergency. MOTION
by Borowski, second by Coyle to introduce by all, suspend the rules. VOTE RESULTED: To suspend the rules:
Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. To adopt: Yes: Borowski, Tanski,
Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. (ADOPTED)

ORDINANCE NO. 2025-18 (1st reading/request suspension/adoption): An Ordinance authorizing the
updated Capital Improvement Plan for 2025, and declaring an emergency. MOTION by Celcherts, second by
Coyle to introduce by all, suspend the rules. VOTE RESULTED: To suspend the rules: Yes: Borowski, Tanski,
Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. To adopt: Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci, Coyle,
Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. (ADOPTED)

                                                       6
MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
BROOKLYN CITY COUNCIL
September 8, 2025

ORDINANCE NO. 2025-19 (1st reading/request suspension/adoption): An Ordinance authorizing the Mayor
to enter into a contract with Public Entities Pool of Ohio for the purpose of providing property and casualty
insurance for the City of Brooklyn for the coverage period beginning September 25, 2025 for a total annual
cost not to exceed $238,439.00, and declaring an emergency. MOTION by Coyle, second by Celcherts to
introduce by all, suspend the rules. VOTE RESULTED: To suspend the rules: Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek,
Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None To adopt: Yes: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts,
Mosley. No: None. (ADOPTED)

PUBLIC SESSION #2

Victor Ardito of 7439 Outlook Avenue spoke about: the speed controls; plowing and how that will be affected,
blowing out tires; Ridge Road – Division of Water project; signs can be 8 feet high and the issue with the
plants is that they are blocking the signs.

Kelli Krall of 10523 Monoa Avenue spoke about: 4 Council seats open, 2 School Board seats open; do your
due diligence, attend meetings, and fact check information received. There is a candidate’s night on September
17th and she urges all residents to attend.

Richard Rowe of 9683 Idlewood Dr. spoke about: Speed humps installed; location is not correct, was not
supposed to be in front of his home. He spoke with the City Engineer. As a public worker he has installed
these and they make noise. Some vehicles are using them as off roading. He is very displeased with the speed
humps, how they were installed, and the noise they create when driven over, etc.

James Mitchell of 6500 Ira Avenue spoke about: Chicanes; In his opinion, they are not slowing people down
and his belief is that they are not going to improve the speeding on these streets. People that are using the
streets as a thorough-way are going around them.

Karam Hasrouni of 4711 Roadoan Road spoke about: Home Days; being held September 27th and 28th and
the Chamber of Commerce is sponsoring the event at the Brooklyn City Schools stadium. There will be a
parade, bands all day Saturday and Sunday, food trucks and vendors, raffles and baskets, Cleveland Recess,
and a car show. He wished to thank the City of Brooklyn City departments, Council and the City Schools for
hosting the event. He listed many premier sponsors.

Katie Rankin of 4181 Ivywood Dr. spoke about: Allowing chickens in the City of Brooklyn; has lived in her
home since 2006 and received chicks in Feb 2025 after checking Google to see if chickens are allowed in the
City of Brooklyn; Google stating yes, up to 6. Her family has bonded with them. Residents have visited her
home and were impressed with the cleanliness, no smell and the quietness of the chickens. There are concerns
that chickens bring more predators. She stated if there are concerns with coyotes, they will also come after
small dogs. She believes it is unconstitutional to say what tax payers can have on their property, as long as the
chickens are not hurting anyone and the land is taken care of and they are safe and secure. Her chickens have
brought joy to her children and the family. Her husband had built coops for the chickens and they have become
their therapy pets. Ms. Rankin stated there is no definition of the keeping of chickens for pets; not only for
meat and eggs; they receive more one-on-one attention and care. She stated she believes that if Council allows
more residents to have chickens that the city would not need to increase police force and animal control.
Chickens are permitted in Lakewood, Linndale and Cleveland, questioning why we can’t have them here. If
passed by majority vote of Council, it would be for a small group of residents with a permit, proper
maintenance of the coop and run and that they are taken care of and healthy. During the initiative petition
process, 90% of the people her family spoke with, were for their petition. She stated to let’s move forward
together.


                                                       7
MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
BROOKLYN CITY COUNCIL
September 8, 2025

Wally Parker of 7411 Meadowbrook spoke about: Mr. Parker asked what happened to the deer culling program
because the St. Thomas Moore neighborhood is over run with them.

Cindy Woide of 4164 Spring Crest Dr. spoke about: With the holiday season approaching, she was slightly
disappointed at last year’s lighting on Memphis. She stated there was a Christmas tree in the lobby of City
Hall, but no other lighting along these points. She believes last year would be have a great year to do this to
showcase the new City Hall. She would like to see more decorations considered this season.

MISCELLANEOUS:

Pres. Pucci stated most of Council received complaints about the lack of decorations and there are plans for
more this season. The lack of electrical “outlets” along City Hall was the issue.

Mayor Van Kirk stated more decorations have been ordered and they will be displayed. He also stated he met
with Mr. Rowe and deferred him to the City Engineer. He understands that Mr. Rowe is frustrated with the
speed hump being in front of his house; but he defers to the engineer on where they are to be placed. The
chicanes are temporary, they may or may not work; the engineer believes they will. Mayor stated we are trying
to solve the speeding issue; a problem that has been on these streets for years. If they do not work, the city
will try something else. He thanked Mr. Hasrouni for all of his work with Home Days. Mayor addressed Mr.
Parker stating the deer culling was not a part of 2025 budget. We are working with the Ohio Department of
Agriculture and if Council approves and the budget allows for it, we will be doing a deer culling in the 1st
quarter of next year (January to March). I will be ongoing with the Ohio Department of Agriculture dictating,
along with the ODNR.

Pres. Pucci stated in regards to Mr. Mitchell’s sign behind the tree concerns, that will be corrected. Mayor
stated he understands his frustration. The city approved the contractor and there are many issues; Idlewood’s
permanent signs took a long time be erected and the temporary ones were left. Adjustments will be made.

Councilman Tanski stated the mayor has been working hard to try and slow the traffic down. When speaking
to residents, all he has been hearing is comments about the speed. Cars are driving 50-55 mph. Residents have
asked him repeatedly to do something about the speeding. He stated the mayor has done everything he can to
slow it down. Mr. Tanski stated there are things about the chicanes he does not agree with; obstacle course
being hard for the plows in the winter months, pushing them right over. A chicane is supposed to be opposite
of another chicane; he does not understand the current path. He explained what the actual set up should be.
No Parking signs will be put up in the areas of the chicanes. In regards to speed tables, they should be the
speed limit of the street; not 10 mph and then go back up to 25 mph. If the speed is 25 mph on the street, then
the speed tables need to be 25 mph. People have to slow down; the residents are asking for it. He asked the
audience to please work through this. They are trying to make the city safe.

There being no further business, MOTION by Coyle, second by Celcherts to adjourn. VOTE RESULTED:
To adjourn: Borowski, Tanski, Grodek, Pucci, Coyle, Celcherts, Mosley. No: None. (ADJOURNED)

Meeting adjourned.

/s/ Dana A. Schroeder                                     /s/ Kathleen Pucci
Dana Schroeder, Clerk of Council                          Kathleen Pucci, Council President

Minutes approved: September 22, 2025




                                                      8
