SPENCER TOWNSHIP
SPECIAL MEETING
JULY 9, 2026

Chair of the Board, Steven A. Kester called the meeting to order at 7:03 PM.

Roll Cail
Trustee Raymond J. Havens present
Trustee Steven A. Kester present
Trustee Michael B. Hood present

Pledge to the Flag

Minutes

Trustee Hood made a motion to approve the minutes from both the June 4, 2026, meeting and
the June 18, 2026, meeting, Trustee Havens seconded. Roll call vote: Trustee Havens: yes,
Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

Financials
Receipts $26,904.27
Payments $565,146.08

Fund Balances

Trustee Hood made a motion to approve the financials, Trustee Havens seconded. Roll call vote:
Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

General

Motor Veh. License
Gas Tax

Road and Bridge
Fire

Permissive Motor Veh.

Misc. Special Revenue
Misc. Capital Projects

$2,848,953.22
$19,617.82
$52,281.80
$3,187.17
$269,298.10
$88,849.85
$1,794.96

$177,841.65
$3,461,824.57

1[Page


Resolution 2026-07-09 was considered by the Trustee Board, it is a resolution approving 2027
estimated revenues and estimated appropriations that will be presented to the Lucas County
Auditor for approval.

The Board reviewed the budget and added projects that should have been included for
appropriations.

Trustee Hood made a motion to approve the estimated Revenues and Appropriations for 2027
from Resolution 2026-07-09, Trustee Havens seconded. Roll call vote: Trustee Havens: yes,
Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

Website Accessibility for governmental entities needs to be considered for compliance coming
in 2028. The fiscal officer asked for permission to have the Township website evaluated for free
by OTARMA. Trustee Hood made the motion to approve the website accessibility review,
Trustee Havens seconded. Roll call vote: Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee
Hood: yes.

Cybersecurity

Trustee Havens made a motion to approve and apply all policies in the Compliance Evidence
Playbook as prepared by FalconForge Al, Trustee Hood seconded. Roll call vote: Trustee
Havens: yes, Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

Pay the Bills

Trustee Havens made a motion to pay the bills for the month, Trustee Hood seconded. Roll call
vote: Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

Zoning

Jacob Barnes gave the report.

Permits were issued

He mentioned the next JEDZ meeting is August 6, 2026.

The Township has been given the approval from the Metroparks to mow their properties that
are in need at certain intersections.

CIC meeting was held on 6/23/26 and a boundary survey was approved to be conducted at 614
Crissey Road.

The TMACOG Summer Caucus will be held on July 20, 2026.

2|Page


The Township is working on a possible manufacturing facility in Westwinds.

BZA

No meeting

Road

The resignation of Tim Bowes was received.

Trustee Hood made a motion to accept the resignation, Trustee Havens seconded. Roll call vote:
Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

The Township will send him a letter accepting his resignation and thanking him for his services.
Mowing of intersections, mowing of ditch banks, and clearing of brush as needed has occurred.
No dumping signs are being placed as there has been recent problems.

Due to high winds, blocked trees have been removed from roadways.

Fire

Fire Chief Ziehr gave the report.

The 2025 utility invoice was presented to Springfield Township for 20% reimbursement of utility
bills. The amount of the invoice was $2,582.60.

2 Fire
10 EMS/Rescue

No major incidences through the 4" of July celebrations.

Construction at Station 52 is dedicated to the new Firefighter Memorial. Over $18,000 has been
collected from local businesses. Countertop Shop is donating all the granite. It is expected to
be completed in October.

An additional pumper was obtained, and it will replace equipment at the Holloway station.

Training continues, all have completed the CyberSecurity training. Virtual squatting training is
occurring (false bomb threats). Most are Al driven. Operation LifeSaver training put on by
Norfolk Southern occurred. This training is free of charge.

Trustee Hood asked if manifests are available for items being hauled through our Township via
rail. Chief explained not all, but there are other hi-tech communications.

3[Page


JEDZ

Craig Burns, legal counsel for the JEDZ gave an update on Camille Harris’ removal from the JEDZ
Board. He explained that it was a removal for cause as she missed 9 out of the 11 meetings in
2025. She was asked to resign he stated.

Township Attorney Jeff Stopar explained the purpose of revisiting this topic is to clean up the
record, there should be another motion to remove Camille Harris from the jEDZ Board pursuant

to Section 4F of the JEDZ agreement.

Trustee Kester asked if it was her responsibility to know when the next meeting was to be held.
Mr. Barnes stated she received copies of the minutes in her email.

Mr. Burns said this removal is not willful, it is for cause. There is no finding of fault.

Trustee Hood made the motion per Section 4F of the JEDZ agreement to remove Camille Harris
from the JEDZ Board, Trustee Havens seconded. Roll call vote: Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee
Kester: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

Per the JEDZ agreement a letter will be sent informing her of the removal.

Trustee Hood made a motion to appoint India McLane to the open position on the JEDZ Board,
Trustee Havens seconded. Roll call vote: Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee
Hood: yes.

Open to the Public

James Morgan asked what all the roadside work was going on and Trustee Kester explained it is
ATT installing fiber optics via a grant they received. He also mentioned when Spencer reached
out to them (ATT) they were not interested in installing fiber in the Township.

Correspondence

None

Old Business

Trustee Havens made a motion to approve the Joint Cooperative Agreement for Water System
Improvements between Spencer Township and Lucas County Schwamberger Road between
Frankfort and Angola Roads, Trustee Hood seconded. Roll call vote: Trustee Havens: yes,

Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

New Business

4|Page


Consideration of proposal from Michelle Wing regarding an objective assessment of the
township’s current human resources practices, policies and administrative processes was
received. Trustee Hood met with Ms. Wing last month and feels the Township needs to have
the Township’s HR handbook reviewed. Her fee is $1,000. She will make recommendations.

There was discussion on the need of having her services. Trustee Hood made a motion to hire
Michelle Wing for the fee of $1,000 to update the Township Handbook, Trustee Havens
seconded. Roll call vote: Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

Keith Clonch presented a draft copy of the proposed Township organizational chart.

He commented on the communication process through Township personnel and how people
are perceived throughout the Township. He explained there are lots of other services that the
Township provides that are not normally mentioned. Trustee Hood and Mr. Clonch are tossing
around changing the name of the road department to the Spencer Township Public Services
Department.

At 8:46 pm Trustee Kester made a motion to adjourn, and Trustee Hood seconded. Roll call
vote: Trustee Havens: yes, Trustee Kester: yes, Trustee Hood: yes.

X X

Dawn E McDonald Steven A. Kester
Fiscall Officer Chair of the Board of Trustees

X X

Raymond J, Havens Michael B, Hood

Vice Chair of the Board of Trustees Trustee

5|Page

