The Township of Hamilton, Warren County, Ohio Board of Trustees met in regular session on
May 20, 2026, at 6:00 p.m. at Hamilton Township, Warren County, Ohio, with the following
Trustees present:

Mark Sousa— Trustee, Chair
Darryl Cordrey — Trustee, Vice Chair
Joseph P. Rozzi — Trustee

Mr. DOUXSA presented the following Resolution and moved its adoption:

HAMILTON TOWNSHIP, WARREN COUNTY, OHIO
RESOLUTION NUMBER 26-0520B

A RESOLUTION PLACING A TWELVE-MONTH MORATORIUM ON THE ISSUANCE
OF ZONING PERMITS AND APPROVALS FOR NEW DATA CENTER USES IN
HAMILTON TOWNSHIP

WHEREAS, Hamilton Township has adopted a limited home-rule form of government, which empowers
the Township to exercise all powers of local self-government, and adopt local regulations that do not conflict with

general federal and Ohio laws, for the protection of the public health, safety, and general welfare of Township
residents;

WHEREAS, Ohio Revised Code 519.02 further empowers the Township to impose reasonable zoning
regulations for the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, and morals within the Township;

WHEREAS, for the purposes of this Resolution, “Data Center” shall be understood to refer to a facility

or portion of a facility housing networked computer systems and telecommunications equipment used for remote
storage, processing, and distribution of data;

WHEREAS, for the purposes of this Resolution, “Auxiliary Data Center” shall be understood to refer to
a Data Center which is ancillary to another primary use of the subject property and satisfies all of the following
conditions: (i) is not housed in a standalone structure separate from a permitted primary structure on the property,
(ii) occupies no more than ten percent (10%) of the primary structure’s footprint, (iii) is used to serve the enterprise
functions of an occupant of the property, and (iv) is not used to lease data storage and processing services to non-
occupants of the property;

WHEREAS, “Large-Scale Data Center” shall be understood to refer to a Data Center which is a primary

use of the subject property. A Data Center that does not meet the definition of an Auxiliary Data Center shall be
considered a Large-Scale Data Center;

WHEREAS, Large-Scale Data Centers raise unique concerns for surrounding properties and the overall
community related to the reliability of the local power grid, rising electricity prices, availability of water and other
utilities necessary for Data Center operation, noise, aesthetics, and security and safety concerns; and


WHEREAS, the Hamilton Township Board of Trustees finds it necessary to enact a twelve (12) month
moratorium on the issuance of zoning permits and other approvals for Large-Scale Data Centers to allow the

Township time to research and evaluate the impacts of Large-Scale Data Centers on the community, and the
potential need for text amendments to the Hamilton Township

Zoning Resolution to address Data Centers in the interests of the public health, safety, and general welfare.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Hamilton Township Board of Trustees, Warren
County, Ohio:

SECTION 1. The issuance of any and all zoning permits and other approvals allowing the development,
construction, or operation of any new Large-Scale Data Centers is hereby suspended for a period of twelve (12)
months from the effective date of this Resolution—which suspension shall expire on May 20, 2027 (the
“Moratorium’”).

SECTION 2. To the extent there are any existing Large-Scale Data Centers in Hamilton Township as of
the effective date of this Resolution, the issuance of any and all zoning permits and other approvals allowing the
expansion or enlargement of such existing facilities is hereby suspended for the period of the Moratorium.

SECTION 3. The Moratorium shall not apply to applications or zoning permits related to the

development, construction, or operation of a Large-Scale Data Center where such applications or permits were
submitted or issued prior to the effective date of this Resolution.

SECTION 4. During the Moratorium, the Township Administrator, Planning and Zoning Department,
Law Director, and other appropriate Township staff are hereby directed to investigate and review the potential
impacts of Large-Scale Data Centers on the Hamilton Township community.

SECTION 5. It is found that all formal actions of the Board of Trustees concerning and relating to the
adoption of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of this Board, and that all deliberations of the Board

of Trustees that resulted in this formal action occurred in meetings open to the public in compliance with all legal
requirements.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that, by a majority vote of its members, the Board of Trustees hereby

dispenses with the requirement that this Resolution be read on two separate days and authorizes its passage on the
first reading.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Resolution constitutes an emergency measure necessary for
the immediate preservation of the public health, safety and general welfare, and for the further reason that the Board
desires to make an informed decision regarding the most effective means of preventing any detrimental impacts on
the Hamilton Township community associated with Large-Scale Data Centers, and the most appropriate means of
regulating Large-Scale Data Centers in Hamilton Township, and this Resolution shall be effective upon its passage
per Ohio Revised Code 504.11.

Mr. (® tac (oan seconded the Resolution and the following being called upon the
question of its adoptions the vote resulted as follows:


Darryl Cordrey — Aye we Nay
Joe Rozzi — Aye Nay
Mark Sousa — Aye Nay

Resolution adopted this 20" day of May, 2026.

Attest:

Prats C0 ucH

Leah M. Elliott, Fiscal Officer

Approved as to form:

cine vies

-Bénjamin J. Yoder, Law Director

I, Leah M. Elliott, Fiscal Officer of Hamilton Township, Warren County, Ohio, hereby certify
that this is a true and accurate copy of a Resolution duly adopted by the Board on May 20, 2026.

Date: al aplaoay HealrS 0 Lal

Leah M. Elliott, Fiscal Officer
