CLAY TOWNSHIP BOARD OF TRUSTEES REGULAR MEETING
April 7, 2026

The Regular meeting of the Clay Township Trustees was called to order by Chairman, Angela Howell at
5:30 pm.

The Pledge of Allegiance was said and a moment of silence was observed for our active military,
veterans, and first responders.

Roll: Angela Howell — Present Dale Winner — Present Mark Haworth — Present

Angela Howell presented the minutes from the Regular Trustee Meeting on 02/03/2026,
Angela Howell made a motion to approve the Regular Trustee Meeting Minutes from 02/03/2026,
Seconded by Dale Winner

Roll: All yes

Angela Howell presented the minutes from the Regular Trustee Meeting on 03/03/2026,
Angela Howell made a motion to approve the Regular Trustee Meeting Minutes from 03/03/2026,
Seconded by Dale Winner

Roll: All yes

Angela Howell presented the minutes from the Special Trustee Meeting on 03/12/2026.
Angela Howell made a motion to approve the Special Trustee Meeting Minutes from 03/12/2026,
Seconded by Dale Winner

Roll: All yes

Angela Howell presented the minutes from the Special Trustee Meeting on 3/19/2026.
Angela Howell made a motion to approve the Special Trustee Meeting Minutes from 3/19/2026,
Seconded by Dale Winner

Roll: All yes
Public Comment:

Amy and Kevin Fiddler spoke regarding updates on the Fire and EMS levy. Amy is currently posting
updates frequently to keep the community informed. She updated the community activities schedule
and met with the Brookville Chamber of Commerce to discuss the levy. Kevin Fiddler provided an update
regarding two events to inform the citizens of the facts. The Phillipsburg Fire Association has a waffle
fundraiser on Saturday, April 25, at 10:00 AM at Golden Gate Park and on the evening of Wednesday,
April 29, 2026 there is a meeting at 7:00 PM at the Brookville Fire House sponsored by the Brookville
Chamber of Commerce.



Department Reports:

Police Department-

Chief Birk presented the March 2026 PD stats and the March 2026 Monthly Traffic Report.

The latest report shows an increase in business checks and a decrease in calls for service. Chief Birk
emphasized the importance of quality citations, specifically for speeding and red-light violations which
cause accidents. These efforts continue to benefit Clay Township. Notably, the top speed recorded by
the speed sign for the month of March has dropped to 77 MPH, prior month was at 89 MPH,
demonstrating its effectiveness as an enforcement tool. The Chief indicated that the speed sign will now
be able to be placed on several township roads thanks to Chris Maleski’s help in installing the new crime
watch signs.

The department is now utilizing Lexipol for policy management. This system allows for electronic,
instantaneous, and accurate policy updates. Additionally, Chief Birk has successfully secured a $7,500
traffic grant, still working towards several other equipment grants to help the department.

Chief Birk highlighted several promotional and safety events scheduled for this spring and summer and
fall, including:

~ Click It or Ticket

- National Police Week

- Peace Officer Memorial Day

- Drive Sober or Get Pulled Over

Angela Howell made a motion to approve the March 2026 Monthly PD Report. Seconded by Dale
Winner.

Roll: All yes.

Angela Howell made a motion to accept into record the March 2026 Monthly Traffic Report. Seconded
by Dale Winner,

Roll: All yes.

Road and Cemetery-
Chris Maleski presented the March 2026 Arlington Cemetery report, total monthly sales $8,325.00.
Additionally, Chris provided the following project updates:
- Pleasant Plain Road Improvements Phase III: meetings being scheduled to begin this project
- Hartman Road Resurfacing Project: Milling is scheduled to begin on Thursday, April 9, 2026,

Angela Howell made a motion to accept into record the Superintendent of Arlington Cemetery March
2026 monthly report. Seconded by Dale Winner

Roll: All yes.

Zoning -

Greg Stose presented the March 2026 Zoning Administrator report. Greg provided updates on all current
code enforcement actions, and developments regarding the Spectrum and Frontier requests for ROW
permits regarding the installation of fiber cables on township roads. Greg submitted for the MORE grant
for $1000,



Angela Howell discussed the actions that her and Greg are taking to address the two trucking company
zoning issues. The next Zoning Commission meeting is scheduled for April 15, 2026, at 6:00 PM.

Angela Howell made a motion to approve the Zoning Administrator March 2026 monthly report.
Seconded by Dale Winner.

Roll: All yes
Fiscal Officer Report

Vanessa Furrey has not completed the full March Financial Package for acceptance, but confirmed that
bank reconciliation is complete through the end of month. Vanessa will present the March monthly
Financial Package at the next Regular Trustee Meeting.

Fire Department(s) Report

Chief Patrick Aldrich has submitted the Phillipsburg FD Report to the Trustees. The report details several
key areas, including:

~ Personnel and Staffing

- Equipment and Maintenance

- The New Ambulance

- Training

- Grants and Outside Funds

~ The Clay Township Levy

~ Call Volume

Mark Haworth presented and submitted the Brookville FD Operations Report for March 2026.

Mark Haworth made a motion to accept into record the Brookville FD Operations Report for March 2026
as well as the Phillipsburg FD Operations Report for March 2026. Seconded by Dale Winner.

Roll: All yes

Angela Howell made a motion to approve the cemetery deeds as presented. Seconded by Dale Winner.
Roll: All yes

No Unfinished Business

New Business:

Dale Winner presented Resolution 2026-009 -Resolution Establishing the Clay Township Cemetery
Endowment Fund. This will authorize the board to create a permanent cemetery endowment fund. This
fund will be dedicated to the maintenance, improvement, preservation, and beautification of township
cemeteries within Clay Township. Mark Haworth asked if anyone ever offered to donate money to the
cemetery. Chris Maleski explained there was a time a resident did request this, but nothing ever
happened with the BOT.



Dale Winner moved to adopt Resolution 2026-009 -Resolution Establishing the Clay Township Cemetery
Endowment Fund pursuant to section 517.15 of the Chio Revised Code. Seconded by Angela Howell

Roll: All yes

Dale Winner made a motion to approve updates to the 2026 Cemetery Fee Schedule to include the
optional contribution language at the bottom of the form. Angela Howell seconded.

Roll: All yes

Angela Howell presented Resolution 2026-015 - Zoning Commission Appointment, Linda Clark. Angela
stated that there is an opening on the Zoning Commission and Linda Clark submitted a letter of interest
to be considered. Linda brings extensive experience as a 47-year resident and long-time business owner
in Clay Township. She comes highly recommended due to her deep roots in our community.

Angela Howell made a motion to approve Resolution 2026-015, appointing Linda Clark to the Clay
Township Board of Zoning Commission member. Pursuant to ORC 519.04, this appointment for
Montgomery County is effective immediately. Mrs. Clark will fill the vacant unexpired term terminating
December 31, 2028. Seconded by Dale Winner.

Roll: All yes

Angela Howell presented Resolution 2026-016, which proposes a 12-month moratorium on the
acceptance and processing of applications for the establishment or expansion of data centers within Clay
Township. The Board of Trustees has found this temporary measure is necessary to allow time for our
Zoning Commission Board to study the potential impacts of these facilities and concerns of
environmental impacts and to decide if amendments to the Clay Township Zoning Resolution are
required to protect the health, safety, and welfare of our residents. This moratorium will serve as a
planning tool, allowing the local government sufficient time to review land-use issues and adopt
appropriate regulations. General discussion held and questions answered.

Angela’ Howell made a motion to approve Resolution 2026-016 which imposes a temporary moratorium
on the acceptance and processing of applications for the establishment or expansion of data centers
within Clay Township for a period of twelve (12) months according to ORC Sections 519.01, 519.02,
519.12, Seconded by Dale Winner.

Roll: All yes
Trustee Assignment Reports
SAM. gov (System for Award Management/grants) renewal

Dale Winner states he received notification that our account needed to be renewed. This platform is an
essential tool for grants and the renewal has been completed for one year.



QuikTrip Development Agreement updates

Angela Howell provided an update regarding the QuikTrip project. We are currently awaiting the final site
plan, signage and lighting plan, and estimates for revenue and fuel volume. These details are required to
generate a tax revenue estimate. Angela sent a follow-up email to QuikTrip on March 16, 2026, awaiting
their response. Additionally, after consulting with the township council it has been indicated there are no
concerns regarding Clay Township's liability.

Angela Howell stated that she attended the Northmont Board of Education Annual Advisory meeting,
March 23, 2026.

Angela Howell stated she will be attending the Montgomery County Annual Engineer’s meeting
04/08/2026 and the Township Association Luncheon on May 21, 2026.

Angela Howell informed the Trustees of a free 2-3 hr cyber security online training through The
University of the State of Ohio. Each employee is required to complete.

With no further business, Angela Howell made a motion to adjourn the Regular Meeting at 7:00 PM,
seconded by Dale Winner.

Roll: All Yes

The meeting was aeFourned at 7: 00 PM

Ak oS La A, Lt? Angela Howell, Chairman
eo Loe Dale Winner, Trustee

Le

MA Soret Mark Haworth, Trustee

Attested, Vanessa Furrey, Fiscal Officer

