CITY OF FAIRBORN
COUNCIL MEETING
March 6, 2023, at 6:00 p.m.
Council Chambers

COUNCIL MEMBERS Present Absent
Paul Keller, Mayor x] ia
Clint Allen, Councilman kX]

Adam Fritzsche, Councilman xX] im
Kevin Knepp, Deputy Mayor X im
Rodney McCubbins, Councilman xX] im
Mary Reaster, Councilwoman im DX
Tana Stanton, Councilwoman Xx] oO

Deputy Mayor Knepp made a motion to excuse Councilwoman Reaster from the meeting.
Councilman McCubbins seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mayor Keller excused
Councilwoman Reaster from the meeting.

STAFF MEMBERS PRESENT

Anderson, Gebhart, Howard, Mayer, Riggs and Taylor.
Everyone stood for the Pledge of Allegiance and a moment of silence.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Councilman McCubbins moved to approve the February 20, 2023,
Council Meeting Minutes. Councilwoman Stanton seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried.
Mayor Keller declared the minutes approved as written.

Councilman Allen moved to approve the February 24, 2023, Council Retreat Minutes.
Councilman Fritzsche seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mayor Keller declared the
minutes approved as written.

Deputy Mayor Knepp moved to approve the February 25, 2023, Council Retreat Minutes.
Councilwoman Stanton seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mayor Keller declared
the minutes approved as written.

OLD BUSINESS

ORDINANCE 10-23 APPROVING THE ZONING MAP AMENDMENT FROM
SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL TO PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, A PRELIMINARY
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) PLAN, AND PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT
FOR A RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT TO BE KNOWN AS GLENVIEW LOCATED AT
2316 NEW GERMANY TREBEIN ROAD.



Councilman Fritzsche moved to read Ordinance 10-23 for the second time by title only.
Deputy Mayor Knepp seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor,
read Ordinance 10-23 by titie only.

Kathleen Riggs, City Planner, reviewed. the applicant, owner, and future owner. She
reviewed the aerial and zoning maps. The site is a little over 10 acres. This proposal
includes six buildings with a total of 55 units which will be two to three bedroom condos.
This will be completed in one phase of development. Five of the buildings will include
100 condominiums with 8 garages and driveways. The sixth building is a little bit smaller
and half the size. It will accommodate 5 condos with 4 garages. Access to the site is off
of Varner Road which leads to a private circular drive surrounding some open space in
the middle. Each garage to the unit is a one-car garage and there is a small driveway
that can accommodate one vehicle. There is a total of 32 additional vehicle parking
spaces located at this site. For overall parking accommodations it should be able to
accommodate 120 spaces. The site does have a 4-foot sidewalk that is adjacent to the
private drive that is adjacent to the site. The site will also provide a walkway that will lead
from the intersection from Varner Road to Beaver Valley New Germany Trebein Road
intersection. They want to make sure they are following the Master Plan of Greene
County Parks and Trails and having that connectivity between these residential units and
then also to adjacent parks. Dumpsters are located on site and there is a mailbox kiosk
for those residents. The site does have an existing ditch located on the northern side
which will be maintained by the owners. The storm water plan shall include a retention
pond that is located on the eastern side of the site. They plan to have groups of plantings
at the entranceway off New Germany Trebein Road onto Varner and then also at the
entranceway on to this site. She discussed the access point for the development and the
fagade of the buildings. She explained the floor plans for these five-unit buildings include
two units on the first floor and the second story has three units. The size of these units
are 1200 to 1500 square feet. There are approximately 700 square feet in the front and
rear patios and porches. The ten-unit building is just a mirror image of this.

Because this development borders several jurisdictions staff met with Greene County, the
City of Beavercreek and with the applicant to go over the entire development. They also
had a meeting with those residents of the Crossings of Canterbury Trail which is the
residential development to the west with the applicant to address any questions or issues
they might have with having new neighbors. Beavercreek has already committed to
implementing no parking along Varner Road. That was one of the concerns those
residents had, so the City of Beavercreek is addressing that as that is their street. Other
improvements they had questions about were regarding drainage and that will be
addressed once those final engineering plans are submitted. Those have been
addressed conditions that Planning Board has recommended associated with this
Ordinance to address drainage. She spoke with a property owner who is located south of
this site who was against the development with concerns regarding an increase in traffic
as well as impact to Beavercreek school district with additional students. Planning Board
did unanimously recommend approval with several conditions which she reviewed. Staff
recommends approval of Ordinance 10-23.

Mayor Keller opened the public Hearing.

Robert Hayes, Project Manager for Grand Communities Fisher Homes, thanked Council
for their consideration and stated he was present to answer any questions they may have.


Mayor Keller closed the public hearing.

Deputy Mayor Knepp questioned the location of the retention pond which will drain into
the drainage ditch. Ms. Riggs explained the engineering of the retention pond will
accommodate all the storm water on the site. So having direct access to the ditch she s
not sure how that is engineered, but that is all approved through the City Engineering staff
and it will be built to the standards that storm water and retention/detention ponds are
built to Deputy Mayor Knepp asked if it is a detention pond or a retention pond. Ms.
Riggs stated it is a retention pond. Deputy Mayor Knepp asked if the drainage ditch goes
down to the Beaver Creek. Ms. Riggs stated it does connect to the Beaver Creek and so
making sure that the property owner maintains that site so that water continues to flow is
important. It is necessary that the water flow through that site.

Ed Roth, Site Civil Engineer of the IBI Group, explained they have designed the retention
pond. It is oversized and it will be critical storm. Soo whatever happened pre the post
release will be less than up to the 25 year event unless it is a major storm there will not
be any changes to the flow out of the site. They are also working with the City and the
County on drainage improvements along New Germany and Varner Drive.

Councilman McCubbins thanked the parties involved that are working with the wetlands
to preserve that space.

Councilwoman Stanton had a question related to the comments from the Beavercreek
Wetlands where were they talking about wanting a path to walk to a neighboring park or
reserve. Ms. Riggs stated she spoke with them after Planning Board prior to this meeting
and the path that they were talking about was connecting Autumn Creek to the
intersection of New Germany Trebein. There have been several conversations.
Associated with this site there will be path from Varner to the intersection. With this
development we want to make sure they are providing connectivity and participating in
that trails process. They are taking responsibility for their site. They have also had
conversation with the Engineering staff and Greene County to make some improvement
to New German Trebein as far as crosswalks go and connecting to the park as well as
connecting to Autumn Creek where the sidewalk just ends. Continuing that connectivity
and trying to apply for some grant money to make that connectivity happen is something
that we are looking into. They have reached out to residents of Autumn Creek as well as
the Beaver Creek wetlands trying to keep that conversation going and moving that
process forward.

Councilwoman Stanton moved to waive the rule requiring that Ordinances be read on
three separate occasions and that Ordinance 10-23 be read for the third time by title only.
Deputy Mayor Knepp seconded. Yeas, six: Stanton, Knepp, Allen, Fritzsche, McCubbins,
and Keller. Nays, none. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor, read Ordinance 10-23 by title only.

Councilman McCubbins moved to adopt Ordinance 10-23. Councilman Allen, seconded.
Yeas, six: McCubbins, Allen, Fritzsche, Knepp, Stanton, and Keller. Nays, none. Mayor
Keller declared Ordinance 10-23 duly adopted.


ORDINANCE 11-23 APPROVING THE VACATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY OF
ENTERPRISE DRIVE

Deputy Mayor Knepp moved to read Ordinance 11-23 for the second time by title only.
Councilman Allen seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor, read
Ordinance 11-23 by title only.

Kathleen Riggs, City Planner, stated the vacation of Enterprise Drive was actually
supported during an approval process for the project at 2205 Commerce Center
Boulevard. This is just to clean that up and tighten that up. The City is the applicant for
this vacation. Enterprise Drive was originally dedicated as a public street in 1986 to
originally connect Valle Greene to Commerce Center Boulevard. The site is located south
of Dayton Yellow Springs Road and west of Commerce Center Boulevard and east of
1675. The street was never constructed, A portion of this right of way was vacated in
2019 and given to the parks. In 2020 the City actually removed Enterprise Drive as a
dedicated street from our City thoroughfare plan. This is falling in line with actions we
have taken in the past. They just want to be able to clean this up and once the land is
vacated it will be given back to the adjacent property owners. The City will also maintain
an easement over that vacated area because there are water lines underneath that right
of way. There were no comments. Planning Board does recommend approval and that
was in conjunction with their original approval of the project at 2205 Commerce Center
Boulevard that this land to be vacated. This vacation will then be recorded at Greene
County. Staff recommends approval of Ordinance 11-23

Mayor Keller opened the public hearing.
Mayor Keller closed the public hearing.
Council had no questions.

Councilwoman Stanton moved to waive the rule requiring that Ordinances be read on
three separate occasions and that Ordinance 11-23 be read for the third time by title only.
Deputy Mayor Knepp seconded. Yeas, six: Stanton, Knepp, Allen, Fritzsche, McCubbins
and Keller. Nays, none. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor, read Ordinance 11-23 by title only.

Councilman Allen moved to adopt Ordinance 11-23. Deputy Mayor Knepp seconded.
Yeas, six: Allen, Knepp, Fritzsche, McCubbins, Stanton, and Keller. Nays, none. Mayor
Keller declared Ordinance 11-23 duly adopted.

NEW BUSINESS

ORDINANCE 12-23 UPDATNG VARIOUS SECTIONS OF THE FAIRBORN
CODIFIED ORDINANCES REGARDYING YEILD RIGHT OF WAY INTERSECTIONS
AND PARKING.

Councilwoman Stanton moved to read Ordinance 12-23 for the first time by title only.
Councilman Fritzsche seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor,
read Resolution 12-23 by title only.


Mayor Keller set the public hearing for Ordinance 11-23 for Monday, March 20, 2023.

RESOLUTION 6-23 ADOPTING A FIVE-YEAR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
PLAN.

Deputy Mayor Knepp moved to read Resolution 6-23 for the first time by title only.
Councilman Allen seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor, read
Resolution 6-23 by title only.

Mike Gebhart, Assistant City Manager, explained Resolution 6-23 is adopting the Five-
Year Economic Development Strategic Plan. They have been working for a number of
months since 2021 to update the City’s economic development strategy. In 2021 they
completed the plan with seven different sections of the City and began moving forward
on a new plan. In September 2021 Council approved Resolution 56-21 for consulting
services to help with a new five-year plan. After receiving six proposals staff selected
Red Tiger Investments which does business as Right to Win Cities. Staff has worked
with this team for the last 15 months to come up with a plan. The plan is very thorough
with over 120 pages. In that plan one of the questions that is always paramount is citizen
engagement so as part of that plan they actually did a resident survey and they were
thrilled with the number of residents who actually took the time and submitted responses
at 337 residents. They also contacted numerous businesses and had 24 respond to the
business survey. On top of that they had a steering committee of small businesses, lager
business owners, Wright State, Wright Patterson, and members of Council. For
engagement with the community, they tried to hit on all of those fronts. He was pleased
to bring forward tonight that completed plan that went before the Fairborn Development
Corporation in their February meeting, and it was approved to recommend adopting by
City Council tonight. The plan keys in on areas of the City, the one Herald Square

Calamityville area as well as Skyway Plaza. Staff recommends approval of Resolution 6-
23.

Councilman Fritzsche stated as Mr. Gebhart mentioned they have been working on this
for quite awhile and all of his questions have been answered through that time,

Deputy Mayor Knepp hopes they can make some progress on this. He thinks they have
a consultant also eventually that is going to stay with the project to help move it forward.
He is happy about that aspect of the plan also.

Councilman McCubbins stated it was a big read and a lot of work went into that. He was
glad to see it.

Councilwoman Stanton appreciates the thought, work and input that went into it. She
also knows from hearing from a lot of citizens about their thoughts on economic
development she feels it matches up the idea they are focused on in this plan. She
appreciates all the work that went into this.

Councilman Allen is along the same line as Ms. Stanton. He appreciates the work that
was put in on the ground floor. It took a long time, and they got involvement from the
Base, our community partners and the businesses. This is key to us.


Mayor Keller had no questions. This has been talked about several different times and
for some length now.

Councilman McCubbins moved to adopt Resolution 6-23. Councilman Allen seconded.
Yeas, six: McCubbins, Allen, Fritzsche, Knepp, Stanton and Keller. Nays, none. Mayor
Keller declared Resolution 6-23 duly adopted.

RESOLUTION 7-23 AUTHORIZING THE CITY MANAGER TO ENTER INTO A
CONTRACT FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CONSULTING SERVICES FOR
FISCAL YEAR 2023.

Councilwoman Stanton moved to read Resolution 7-23 for the first time by title only.
Deputy Mayor Knepp seconded. Voice Vote. Motion carried. Mike Mayer, City Solicitor,
read Resolution 7-23 by title only.

Mike Gebhart, Assistant City Manager, explained in November 2022 the City advertised
an RFP to assist in implementing the five-year Economic Development Strategic Plan that
was just passed by Council. Staff went out with the RFP and they had four different
consulting firms respond to the RFP by the due date. Two of those are Ohio based, one
is from Charlotte, NC, the other one is from Birmingham, AL. After those submissions
were scored the firm staff would like to move forward is Red Tiger who we are very familiar
with because they did our economic development strategic plan. What made them stand
out above everyone else is the fact that they are networked in this area. Nothing bad to
say about the other three applicants. They are well qualified firms, but for the City of
Fairbom and its proximity to the Base and Wright State and with Red Tiger- Right to Win
Cities connections the biggest part of this is networking to help us get in front of folks,
whether it be technical or light industrial jobs they were the folks best qualified to do that
for us. When they look at these it is lowest and best, so staff will recommend that Red
Tiger be awarded the contract. The funding for this was put in place by Council with fiscal
year 2023 by Ordinance 34-22. There is money for this contract and it is staff's
recommendation that Red Tiger Investments, LLC dba as Right to Win Cities be
contracted for the fiscal year 2023 to provide Economic Development Consulting Services
to the City.

Councilman McCubbins stated to emphasize Mr. Gebhart’s point networks are so very
important. They say a lot and they help give us the power to move forward. He is glad
that was one of the considerations.

Deputy Mayor Knepp asked if Mr. Gebhart could expand a little bit on their connection
with Wright Patterson Air Force Base. Mr. Gebhart stated one of the subcontractors that
works in partnership with Red Tiger actually does master planning on the Base and
understands the intricacies of mission essential functions and perhaps what might move
off that is not mission essential to make room for more mission essential programs. So,
they really have their pulse on that process. They could not put a value on that, but this
is the second or third plan they have done within the Base as far as Master Planning and
items related to Master Planning.


Councilwoman Stanton moved to adopt Resolution 7-23. Councilman McCubbins
seconded. Yeas, six: Stanton, McCubbins, Allen, Fritzsche, Knepp and Keller. Nays,
none. Mayor Keller declared Resolution 7-23 duly adopted.

CITIZENS COMMENTS

Mayor Keller opened Citizens Comments.

Steve Wilson, 1425 Meadowood Drive, stated he was there to talk about the Maple
Avenue Road construction project. They may recall the letter he wrote to Council, the
City Manager, and the City Engineer in mid-January. He stated before the road
construction began they had Maple Avenue which was a wide two lane highway. There
was a shallow sloped driveway to each of the residences. The homes were well set back
from the roadway. There was on-street parking and what he noticed about the road when
he drove along there was there was often a Police car monitoring the speed. It helped to
keep the speeds down. The bad thing was it was very much potholed, and it needed
repair.

After the road construction, as you know, there are three lanes, there is a middle turning
lane and now the homes are much closer to roadway. There is a wide bike route and you
have an uninterrupted curb all the way along both sides of road which is a great big bump
up into the driveways to the homes. Since there is no on-street parking there are no
police cars there so a lot of cars are speeding along there. The good news is it is a
smooth blacktop highway he is sure everyone likes. He said in his letter in the middle of
January that there are a lot of problems with this. There is potential of vehicle damage
when jumping the curb. He went up and down Maple Avenue and talked to a lot of people
and there are a lot of people who are really angry about dragging their cars coming up
that curb. They could not even get their cars out of the driveway. There is a significant
traffic hazard because as he explained there are high speeds along this route. There is
no on-street parking so if you have a visitor the car pulls into the driveway and the resident
of these homes can’t get home. They can't pull in the driveway and you can’t get out of
the driveway if you happen to have a car parked in his garage. There is a pile up of cars
in the driveway that causes pedestrians to veer onto the street. He saw cars parked on
the extra wide rarely used bike route. He also noticed delivery vehicles they are parked
on the middle turn lane. He saw the other day a furniture vehicle and he can just imagine
two husky guys pulling that out of the back of the truck, now where are they going to go.
They are going to have to cross a very busy highway to get to the residence. The middle
turning lane also causes problems because the people turning in the middle turn lane
and then that creates two high speed lanes on each side. There is nothing to stop them.
In the past if they were making a left hand turn people would have to slow down. There
is a danger if you are making a left turn you must slow down to bump up that curb and
these cars are speeding along. He also noticed the pile up of cars in front of Fairborn
Intermediate School when classes dismiss. He does not think that is very good, He
talked to a lot of people along there and what he would like to see happen is a meeting
scheduled between concerned residents and City Council members and see if there is
something that can be done because it is caused the property value of the homes to
decline and the biggest concern people have is that curb along each side. They would
like to have a shallow gradual incline into their garages.


He noticed the letter he received last week does not address the corrections to the
problems the residents identified. He would like to see some kind of goodwill discussion
on what can be done.

Dave Hall, 1361 Timberwyck Court, Fairborn, Ohio stated he was present with Steve. He
agrees with him. He is on that road a lot. Driving down there seems to be several places
that did get the cutout for the approach to go into the driveway and he was wondered if
anyone on Council could elaborate as to why just a few select people received that when
others did not. Mayor Keller stated he was not aware of those cutouts. Rob Anderson,
City Manager, stated he would do some research and talk with the City Engineer and let
him know. Mr. Hall asked if that would be in a future meeting. Mr. Anderson responded
if he would like to leave his information he could email him. Mr. Hall respectfully reminded
Council that they work for the people and not the other way around. They appreciate
them doing the work for them.

Mayor Keller closed Citizens Comments.

Mayor Keller congratulated Rob Anderson on his six years as being the City Manager.
Council has talked in the past about the significance of milestones and the recognition of
that, but he wanted to publicly thank him for his leadership in the City. Many things have
been accomplished in 6 years; nothing happens overnight. He also knows it is not a one-
person team. Mayor Keller appreciates his leadership. They have worked housing
choices, business growth, Pepsi, Menards, Kroger’s, three minority businesses
downtown, Wi-Fi downtown. We have an excellent partnership with the schools with three
new school buildings. The Spark with the business growth and with the Neighborhood
Nest progressing out of that is one of our shining examples. He wanted to take this
opportunity to thank him for that leadership for those six years.

CITY MANAGER COMMENTS

Rob Anderson, City Manager, stated he was not expecting those comments from the
Mayor, but as he knows he could not have done anything without the people he works
with every day and it is a total team effort. He gets to receive some of the credit, but
honestly it is the people who work in this organization that do the hard work that make
things better for our residents.

He reviewed the March milestones. He discussed the first event of the spring which is
St. Pat Rock’s Day. It will go from 11:30 am. to 10:00 p.m. It will be at the corner of
Broad and Main in partnership with iHeart radio. They have a wonderful event plan, and
they look forward to a fantastic show.

One of the great things he gets to do as part of this job is to swear in our new firefighters
and paramedics. They had a new one that was sworn in last Monday. Lillian Hinkle is a
brand-new firefighter/paramedic, and she started work last Monday. We also have a new
employee in our HR Department. He knows that Robin McClure is happy to have Monica
Sanders start today. That is one of those where we tend to pluck people from another
local jurisdiction and we plucked Monica from the City of Huber Heights. As turn about is
fair play we want to congratulate Rachel Meyers who is one of our communications
specialists. She got plucked by another local community, but she did some wonderful


work here and he knows our folks are certainly going to miss Rachel but she had a
wonderful opportunity in another jurisdiction and we can’t fault her for that but she will be
sorely missed in the communications and dispatching side.

COUNCIL COMMENTS

Councilman Fritzsche congratulated the milestone recipients and congratulated Mr.
Anderson for six years of employment.

Deputy Mayor Knepp thanked everyone for attending the Council meeting. Comments
from visitors are always enlightening. He congratulated Rob on six years and
congratulated all the milestone recipients.

Councilman McCubbins congratulated the milestone recipients. He stated the Greene
County transmission rate of Covid as of March 3, 2023, is at medium. Do whatever you
can to take precautions to protect you, yourself, and your family members. They had a
Council Retreat recently that went very well. He thinks there are a lot of good things
coming to the City in the next year. One of the big things that is always a focus, not only
in Fairborn but in every City, is economic development. A lot of work went into this five-
year economic development plan and one of the complaints they hear on City Council is
what we are not bringing to the City. He would challenge people to go out on the City’s
web page and go under the Government tabs under the Agenda and Minutes and on the
first Monday of every month the Economic Development team publishes a brief synopsis
of what has been happening in the City. There is a ton of economic development going
on. He does not buy that they are not doing anything, Those guys are busy people, A lot
of the stuff that is coming to the City is coming because we aren't even asking; it is just
our reputation and the market demand. One of the people is the gas stations. It is kind
of hard to believe that the market research would demand so many gas stations in such
a small town, but for whatever reason it is. These people are plunking down tons of
money. We are talking like $2 or $3 million. It is not cheap to build a gas station and
bring stuff in. It is hard to fight that. It is a win for the City when those come in. Jobs
come to the City and a lot of these come with convenience stores that if it is put in the
right place takes care of a food desert because there are places for people to go that can’t
make it all the way down to the one grocery store that we have. Economic Development
is strong in our City, and we intend to continue to make it stronger. He reminded everyone
this weekend is daylight savings time.

Councilwoman Stanton thanked those in attendance and those who came forward to
express their concerns. She congratulated Rob Anderson for six years as the City
Manager. She congratulated the milestone recipients. She welcomed the new
employees to the City and thanked those who were departing for their service. She
echoed what Councilman McCubbins said. She found the retreat very valuable. She
appreciated hearing everyone’s input. They all have different perspectives, and itis really
nice to talk through some of the issues facing the City together and learn from everyone.
She thanked the department heads for meetings ahead of time. She thought afterwards
they would come up with this very short list of goals, but with so much discussion it was
great.


Councilman Allen thanked everyone for coming. They get feedback all the time and he
believes that is the tax they get for serving on the City Council, being the City Manager,
being a Mayor. Everything they get is not always going to make people happy. He
appreciates the feedback because they don’t get better without getting the feedback. He
has yet to see an opportunity where our City Manager, who has been here for six years,
has taken an opportunity to look into the concerns. of the citizen, for the Council members
who are here and the past Council members to look into the concerns of the citizens.
They get better because of the feedback. They fight for that feedback. He encouraged
citizens to continue to share their thoughts, opinions, views and then they will work
through whatever they need to work through as a functioning board and as a functioning
government. He congratulated Rob Anderson again for six years on sitting in the seat of
the City Manager. It is a very tough job. Probably the toughest job in this City because
everyone is not going to be happy with some of the decisions and choices. They must
make hard choices sometimes. He thanked Rob for enduring and having patience. In
six years, he learned a lot. He congratulated the milestone recipients. He is happy they
chose to work for the City. He stated great things came out of the Council Retreat. They
have a great opportunity to dig in and talk about what the City is going to look like in three,
four, five years. It is hard work and does not happen overnight. It is a testament to the
economic strategy. Those things will take time and he is glad we have someone on board
to help marshal us through this plan. So, we can get a good handoff for the City to make
things better. A plan is not good if we can’t work through those things. He thanked the
citizens for their attendance and sharing their thoughts.

Mayor Keller appreciated Council's comments and their insight on what they do. They
did have a very successful retreat at Spark in downtown Fairborn. He congratulated the
milestone recipients. He had already discussed Rob’s milestone. He does appreciate
Mr. Anderson hanging in there for six years. Sometimes it gets a little bumpy, but they
always get better. He discussed the upcoming St. Pat Rocks Day event a week from this
Friday. He announced the next Council meeting would be March 20, 2023.

ADJOURNMENT

Councilman Fritzsche moved to adjourn the meeting. Deputy Mayor Knepp seconded.
Yeas, six: Fritzsche, Knepp, Allen, McCubbins, Stariton and Keller. Nays, none. Motion

carried. The meeting adjourned at 6:53 p.m.
/
YUL VW Cy, J)

a 4 (/ GLERK, CITY OF FAIRBORN

MAYOR ‘
