Minutes of August 11, 2026

Record of Proceedings
The Washington Township Board of Trustees regularly scheduled meeting held at Washington Township
Administration Building, 6200 Eiterman Road, Dublin, Ohio, on August 11, 2026, at 6:00 p.m., with Mr.
Charles Kranstuber, Chairman, calling the meeting to order, and it opened with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Roll call – Mr. Charles Kranstuber, Chair – Present
            Mr. Stu Harris, Vice Chair – Absent
            Mr. Jan Rozanski, Trustee – Present
            Mr. Scott Melody, Fiscal Officer – Absent
Franklin County Deputy Sheriff’s Report:
Deputy Burton Haren with the Franklin County Sheriff’s Office (FCSO) submitted a written report to the
Trustees for the period of July 14 through August 11, 2026, including the following updates:
    • During this period, there were seventeen (17) Total Calls for Service / Self-Initiated Activity, four
          (4) Total Reports Taken, and three (3) Total Arrests / Citations:
               o The report outlined an August 7 arrest for domestic violence at the Hayden Heights
                  mobile home community.
    • Deputy Haren’s temporary assignment will conclude at the end of August, and he anticipates
          returning to Township meetings in September.                                        Append #001
Proclamation Recognizing One Dublin:
Mr. Kranstuber welcomed One Dublin Executive Director Brian Carr and Founder Julie Fletcher and
praised the organization’s work in the community, particularly its assistance to residents affected by the
Asherton apartment complex fire. Mr. Carr expressed his appreciation to the Washington Township Fire
Department and community residents who support One Dublin. He provided background on the
organization, which began as Welcome Warehouse, and outlined some of the services it provides. In
addition to annual events such as Back to School Backpacks and Adopt-a-Family, One Dublin also offers a
monthly Community Free Shop that provides free, gently used clothing, personal care items, and small
household essentials to families in need within the Dublin City School District.
Mr. Kranstuber recited the Proclamation presented to One Dublin in recognition of its immediate
response to the Asherton apartment fire by coordinating resources and providing nearly $19,000 in
financial assistance, housing support, furnishings, clothing, personal care items, hotel accommodations,
and protective equipment to families impacted by the disaster. Chief Donahue again thanked Mr. Carr
and Ms. Fletcher for their assistance and outstanding coordination with Washington Township
Community Safety Liaison Megan Schiff, who played an integral role in connecting with One Dublin to
assist the affected residents.
Mrs. Schiff expressed her appreciation to Mr. Carr for his immediate response and coordinated efforts.
She explained she has served as Community Safety Liaison for just over a year and that one component
of her interview process included developing an “After the Fire” program. She noted that she did not
anticipate implementing the program so early in her tenure and was grateful to have had a plan in place.
Dublin Education Foundation Presentation – Updates for the Board of Trustees:
Mr. Kranstuber welcomed Dublin Education Foundation (DEF) Vice President Deb Papesh and Board
Member Maddy Horvath. He noted that the organization is an important part of what makes Dublin City
Schools great.
Ms. Papesh expressed her appreciation for the partnership with Washington Township. In response to
the stipulation that funds provided through the Washington Township grant be used for drug and
alcohol awareness and prevention, the Dublin Education Foundation initiated a “Designated Donor
Funds” program to allow for the tracking of funds donated toward a specific subject area. The program
began with drug awareness programs and has since expanded to five additional areas of focus. Ms.
Papesh explained that drug awareness and prevention has evolved to include mental health awareness
and an emphasis on resilient thinking to prevent or manage stressors that may lead to drug or alcohol
abuse.
Mrs. Horvath detailed several of the forty-three projects awarded funding during the 2025-26 school
year, and Ms. Papesh highlighted the projects that received Township grant funds. Mrs. Horvath noted
that following the 25th Anniversary during the 2025-26 school year, the Dublin Education Foundation will
continue focusing on the grant program while also beginning strategic planning for the organization. She
provided a QR code to a partner survey and emphasized the importance of receiving partner input.
Responding to Mr. Kranstuber’s question, Mr. Richter confirmed that this year’s $5,000 contribution is
the final of three annual installments of the $15,000 grant provided to DEF using Opioid Settlement
Funds. Mr. Kranstuber confirmed an extension of the grant will be discussed at a future meeting when
Mr. Harris is present.
Opportunity for Residents to Speak:
Mr. Gene Bostic provided an update on several cemetery-related items. Mr. Bostic has requested
several quotes for fencing around the Township-maintained Rings Cemetery on Cosgray Road and will
provide an update as they are received. He noted that several additional companies that perform
cemetery restoration services have been identified. The Memorial Preserve proposed by St. John
Lutheran Church was approved by the Dublin Planning and Zoning Commission and is expected to be
presented to Dublin City Council at an upcoming meeting. He noted there has been some community
opposition to the proposal. Mr. Bostic will continue communicating with City planners regarding the
0.68 acres donated to the City for cemetery expansion as part of the Monterey Square proposed
development.
Mr. Bostic reported that John Brown, a retired Lieutenant from the Washington-Perry Township Fire
Department, passed away on Saturday. He lived in Amlin. Mr. Kranstuber recalled that Mr. Brown was a
kind person and an active voice during the Amlin infrastructure and neighborhood improvement
initiative.
Resolution to Conclude Avery M. Fenton’s Employment as Part-Time Firefighter/EMT-B for the
Purpose of Accepting Full-Time Employment Elsewhere:
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
A RESOLUTION CONCLUDING AVERY M. FENTON EMPLOYMENT AS PART-TIME FIREFIGHTER / EMT-B
WHEREAS, the Board of Township Trustees of Washington Township hired Avery M. Fenton on March 6,
2025, and;
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees for Washington Township recognizes Avery M. Fenton has voluntarily
resigned his position to accept full-time employment elsewhere.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of Washington Township, Franklin,
Delaware, and Union Counties, State of Ohio:
         Section 1: The Board of Trustees hereby approves the resignation of:
                 Name:                      Avery M. Fenton
                 Position / Department: Firefighter EMT-B / Fire
                 Classification:            Part-Time
                 Effective date:            August 5, 2026
         Section 2: Avery M. Fenton is eligible for rehire;
        Section 3: It is hereby found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                  relating to the passage of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
                  Board and that all deliberations of the Board and any of the decision making bodies of
                  the Board of Trustees which resulted in such formal actions were in meetings open to
                  the public in compliance with all legal requirements of the State of Ohio.
        Section 4: All prior legislation, or any parts thereof, which is/are inconsistent with this
                  Resolution is/are hereby repealed as to the inconsistent parts thereof.
Mr. Rozanski seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington
Township Trustees who were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted August 11, 2026. #2026.08.11.001
                                                                                                Append #002
Resolution to Authorize and Direct Payment of $5,000 to the Dublin Education Foundation as the
Third of Three Annual Installments of a $15,000 Grant in Support of Drug and Alcohol
Awareness/Prevention Programs, with Biannual Reports to the Board of Trustees Regarding Uses of
the Funds Contributed:
Motion:
Mr. Kranstuber introduced and moved the adoption of the following Resolution:
AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING PAYMENT OF $5,000 TO THE DUBLIN EDUCATION FOUNDATION AS
THE THIRD OF THREE ANNUAL INSTALLMENTS OF A $15,000 GRANT IN SUPPORT OF DRUG AND
ALCOHOL AWARENESS/PREVENTION PROGRAMS; WITH BIANNUAL REPORTS TO THE BOARD OF
TRUSTEES REGARDING USES OF THE FUNDS CONTRIBUTED
WHEREAS, The Dublin Education Foundation (DEF) was created to enrich innovative learning projects in
Dublin City Schools through grant funding and network collaborations; and
WHEREAS, Washington Township is a beneficiary of the OneOhio Opioid Settlement which provides
funding to support drug/alcohol prevention education and activities; and
WHEREAS, The Board of Trustees of Washington Township adopted a resolution on July 9, 2024 to
authorize and direct a grant of $15,000 to the Dublin Education Foundation, payable in annual
installments of $5,000 for the years 2024, 2025 and 2026, in support of grant requests DEF has received
for primary and secondary drug and alcohol awareness/prevention programs; and
WHEREAS, Washington Township supports the efforts of the Dublin Education Foundation to provide
programming that actively reduces and prevents youth substance misuse; and DEF agrees to provide
biannual reports to the Board of Trustees regarding uses of the funds contributed.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of Washington Township, Franklin,
Delaware, and Union Counties, State of Ohio:
        Section 1: The Board of Trustees of Washington Township hereby authorizes and directs the
                  Fiscal Officer to provide $5,000 from OneOhio Opioid Settlement funds to the Dublin
                  Education Foundation to support the above causes as stated, and as the 2026 final
                  installment of the $15,000 grant payable in annual installments of $5,000 for the years
                  2024, 2025 and 2026.
        Section 2: It is hereby found and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and
                  relating to the passage of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
                  Board and that all deliberations of the Board and any of the decision-making bodies of
                  the Board of Trustees which resulted in such formal actions were in meetings open to
                  the public in compliance with all legal requirements of the State of Ohio.
Mr. Rozanski seconded the motion, and the roll was called, and all members of the Washington
Township Trustees who were present voting Aye. Resolution adopted August 11, 2026. #2026.08.11.002
                                                                                                Append #003
Motion to Approve Meeting Minutes:
Mr. Rozanski moved to introduce and approve the minutes from the July 14, 2026, Board of Trustees
Meeting, seconded by Mr. Kranstuber. Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township
Trustees who were present voting Aye.                                                     #2026.08.11.003
                                                                                             Append #004
Motion to Approve Consent Agenda:
Mr. Kranstuber moved to introduce and approve the Consent Agenda as presented and as follows,
seconded by Mr. Rozanski:
       o Bills: July 15, 2026                       $ 429,579.06
       o Bills: July 31, 2026                       $ 186,323.32
       o July 2026 Electronic Payments              $1,911,095.78
       o July 2026 Medical Payments                 $ 388,026.35
       o Payroll: July 17, 2026                     $ 595,331.15
       o Payroll: July 31, 2026                     $ 591,094.49
       o Payroll: Monthly August 7, 2026            $    9,980.84
       o Appropriation Transfer: July 27, 2026 $ 13,000.00
       o Appropriation Transfer: July 30, 2026 $         1,000.00
       o June 2026 Monthly Report
       o June 2026 Year-to-Date Report
Motion passed with all members of the Washington Township Trustees who were present voting Aye.
                                                                                          #2026.08.11.004
                                                                                             Append #005
Round Table Discussions:
Township Administrator Eric Richter:
    • Mr. Richter distributed a copy of a proposal for construction of a single-family home on a vacant
       lot in Amlin, between the railroad crossing and Cosgray Road. He noted the rendering depicts a
       very nice home, but the scale of the house could present a challenge. The property records west
       of the tracks were evaluated, and all information has been provided to the Washington
       Township Zoning Commission, sitting as the Architectural Review Board, for a hearing on
       Monday, August 17 at 7:00 p.m.
    • Mr. Richter provided a memo regarding grave marker restoration at Rings Cemetery. He
       confirmed that quotes will be collected to assist with including the project in the 2027 budget.
    • The Shier Rings Road Shared Use Path project will begin soon, weather permitting.
       Representatives from COTA, MORPC, the Franklin County Commissioners, and Dublin Mayor
       Groomes will participate in a brief ribbon-cutting ceremony on September 18 at 10:00 a.m. Mr.
       Richter will provide the details to Mr. Rozanski.
    • This is the final year of the current agreement for solid waste and recycling services for
       Township residents. Mr. Richter provided an update on the bid process through Consortium I
       and noted that the Township and Dublin are likely to continue services through Rumpke, with
       the same scheduled pickup days, beginning January 1, 2027, under a five-year contract.
    • Mr. Richter provided an update on the rezoning application for the proposed Gateway Crossing
       Development along State Route 161 in Washington Township, Franklin County, and extending
       into Jerome Township, Union County. Representing the Township, attorney Rebecca Princehorn
       sent a letter in response to the developer’s attorney. Last week, the applicant submitted a
       revision to the rezoning application that included a copy of the Traffic Impact Study submitted
       to ODOT. The revision did not clarify provisions for water or sanitary sewer for the Washington
        Township portion of the development. In response to Mr. Kranstuber, Dubin Councilmember
        and Liaison to Washington Township, Wendy Johnson confirmed that she was aware of the
        proposal through her participation in the 161 Corridor Group.
    • Mr. Richter noted that the State has not preempted data center regulation. He will present a
        resolution at the next meeting to extend the moratorium on data centers within the Township,
        which is set to expire on September 5.
    • Mr. Richter noted that the next meeting is September 8, the Tuesday following Labor Day.
Chief John Donahue:
    • Chief Donahue reported that the quarterly meeting with Amazon regarding facility emergency
        plans is scheduled for the next morning.
    • Chief Donahue detailed damage sustained from the day’s storms, including several patient-room
        windows at Dublin Methodist Hospital that were cracked and broken. EMS Manager McDowell
        visited the hospital to determine whether the Fire Department could provide any assistance.
        Chief Donahue confirmed the deployment of Washington Township Fire Department Personnel.
        Training and Safety Manager George Sorge represented the Ohio Fire Chiefs Association
        regarding the emergency response plan at the State Emergency Operations Center, while Lt.
        Kristen Hunt and Firefighter Jeremy Stiver were deployed regionally with the Central Ohio Strike
        Team (COST).
    • Chief Donahue thanked the Trustees for their participation in the Strategic Planning process on
        July 13. He noted that the remainder of that week was spent with internal stakeholders and
        representatives of the Center for Public Safety Excellence (CPSE). He confirmed a draft of the
        Strategic Plan should be available in the coming weeks.
    • Chief Donahue recognized the efforts of the Dublin Police Department, Washington Township
        Fire Department, and the Northwest Regional Emergency Communications Center (NRECC) to
        implement Public Safety U, a program to give participants a behind-the-scenes view of public
        safety. He commended Community Safety Liaison Megan Schiff for her assistance in revitalizing
        the program.
    • Mike Hendershot from the City of Dublin has been in communication with Chief Donahue
        regarding upcoming sanitary sewer line testing to locate breaks, cracks, and potential storm
        water connections. The testing will involve the use of non-toxic smoke.
    • Chief Donahue congratulated Mrs. Lindsay Hummer of Fusion Marketing Group for her video
        tour of Station 95 going viral through the Township’s social media accounts. Mrs. Hummer
        develops the Township’s social media marketing and communications content.
    • Chief Donahue expressed his appreciation to Community Education Coordinator Kori Hurley for
        coordinating the landscaping cleanup and walking path restoration at the Administration
        Building.
Assistant Chief Adam Smith:
    • Chief Smith presented the monthly report for July.
    • Chief Smith provided an update on the training tower incident. The company that manufactured
        and installed the live-fire training prop coordinated with Training and Safety Manager George
        Sorge to ensure it is functioning properly.
    • Chief Smith and EMS Manager Kevin McDowell are reviewing EMS coverage for high school
        football games.
    •   Chief Smith reported that a company in Cincinnati was able to repair the engine head for the
        historic R.E.O. fire truck. Fire department personnel will reassemble and conduct a test run of
        the fire truck.
Human Resources Manager Catherine Grossman:
    • Background checks have been completed for thirteen part-time firefighters. Resolutions will be
        presented to the board in September.
    • The promotional examinations for Lieutenant and Captain have concluded. Fourteen firefighters
        sat for and passed the Lieutenant examination, and two Lieutenants sat for and passed the
        Captain examination. The next step in the process is an assessment center scheduled for
        September.
    • A meeting with CBIZ to review the sick leave project is scheduled for the following day.
Trustee Chuck Kranstuber:
    • Mr. Kranstuber reported that the Ohio Bureau of Workers’ Compensation (BWC) and Governor
        Mike DeWine have proposed a $1 billion dividend for employers, which will be considered by
        the BWC Board of Directors on August 28.
Dublin City Councilmember Wendy Johnson, Liaison to Washington Township:
    • Ms. Johnson reported that City Council voted to rezone a large portion of land in the West
        Innovation District (WID). She noted that data centers are no longer a permitted use in the WID.
    • Ms. Johnson expressed her appreciation to the Washington Township Fire Department for
        providing coverage at recent community events, including the Memorial Tournament, Fourth of
        July celebrations, and the Dublin Irish Festival. She commented that firefighters were highly
        visible throughout the events.
Adjourn Meeting:
Mr. Kranstuber adjourned the meeting of August 11, 2026 at approximately 6:53 p.m. #2026.08.11.005




_____________________________________                       _______________________________
Mr. Charles Kranstuber, Chair                                       Mr. Scott Melody, Fiscal Officer
