RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS
Minutes of MADISON TOWNSHIP BOARD OF TRUSTEES’ REGULAR

Meeting

GOVERNMENT FORMS & SUPPLIES 844-224-3338 FORM NO. 10148

Held May 28, 2026, at 12:00 P.M. 20

Chairman Wayman called the May 28, 2026, Trustees’ Regular Meeting to order at 12:00 P.M.
noon and welcomed everyone to the meeting being held in the Trustees’ Meeting Room at the
Madison Township Administration Building.

Mr. Wayman called for a roll call: Mr. Sill, Mr. White, Mr. Wayman, Ms. Hamercheck, Chief
Hager, Mr. Cook and Mr. Pasqualone were in attendance.

Mr. Wayman led the audience in the Pledge of Allegiance.

Mr. Wayman stated at this time we will have a “Moment of Silence” to remember some residents
of Madison who have recently passed away. Please remember Sherrie Lynn Sweet, Richard
Downing, and Jean (Hannon) Lamoureux.

Mr. Wayman requested a motion to approve the Minutes from the May 12, 2026, Trustees’
Workshop Meeting and the May 12, 2026, Trustees’ Regular Meeting.

Mr. White presented a motion to approve the Minutes from the May 12, 2026, Trustees’
Workshop Meeting and the May 12, 2026, Trustees; Regular Meeting, seconded by Mr. Sill.
Roll Call: Mr. White: Yes Mr. Sill: Yes Mr. Wayman: Yes

Mr. Wayman requested a motion to approve the bill list in the amount of forty thousand, seven
hundred ninety dollars and ninety-four cents ($40,790.94) (actual) for May 28, 2026.

Mr. Sill presented a motion to approve the bill list in the amount of forty thousand, seven hundred
ninety dollars and ninety-four cents ($40,790.94) (actual) for May 28, 2026, attached to and made
part of these Minutes, seconded by Mr. White. Roll Call: Mr. Sill: Yes Mr. White: Yes
Mr. Wayman: Yes

Mr. Wayman requested a motion to approve payroll in the amount of one hundred thirty-seven
thousand, seven hundred and twenty-four cents ($137,700.24) (actual) for May 29, 2026.

Mr. White presented a motion to approve payroll in the amount of one hundred thirty-seven
thousand, seven hundred and twenty-four cents ($137,700.24) (actual) for May 29, 2026,
seconded by Mr. Sill. Roll Call: Mr. White: Yes Mr. Sill: Yes Mr. Wayman: Yes

TRUSTEES:
Mr. Wayman requested a motion to approve Resolution #26-074, A Resolution imposing a
moratorium of twelve (12) months on the establishing, permitting, consideration, approval,
location, construction and/or installation of any data center with Madison Township, Lake
County, Ohio.

Mr. Sill presented a motion to approve Resolution #26-074, seconded by Mr. White. Roll Call:
Mr. Sill: Yes Mr. White: Yes Mr. Wayman: Yes

Mr. Sill stated the Board feels the cons far outweigh the pros on this issue and would like to pause
before any of these things become an issue. Mr. Pasqualone stated a moratorium is for the
purposes of discussion and policies. The Board may want to take that next step rather than just
passing a moratorium. The Board should discuss the issue and determine if its yay or nay, and
if yay, come up with policies. Mr. Pasqualone stated someone could take exception to the
moratorium and say that the Township is not doing anything with the issue. Sometime within
the next year, the Board should pass another Resolution regarding this issue. Mr. Wayman said
the Trustees will work on the issue, and he thanked Mr. Pasqualone for the information.

Mr. Wayman requested a motion to approve Resolution #26-075, A Resolution in opposition of
the elimination of all property taxes in Ohio.

Mr. White presented a motion to approve Resolution #26-075, seconded by Mr. Sill. Roll Call:
Mr. White: Yes Mr. Sill: Yes Mr. Wayman: Yes

Mr. Wayman stated the elimination of property taxes would mean the Township would lose all
funding for the police, fire, and road services. Property taxes are hard on your wallet, but are
necessary to fund Township services. For this reason, all townships in Lake County are opposing
the elimination of property taxes. Mr. Sill stated on top of that, there are a lot of House Bills put



MADRECRRRSAF OROGF AMES REGULAR

Minutes of Meeting

GOVERNMENT FORMS & SUPPLIES 844-224-3338 FORM NO. 10148

May 28, 2026, at 12:00 P.M.
Held 20

into place already that are lowering the tax levy and putting more control in the State’s hands
compared to the Township’s hands. The State is already analyzing every budget line and, Mr.
Sill said that scares him because the State would determine what is important to them and not
what is important for the residents in Madison. Reform is needed regarding this issue but it is
necessary to find a better way for funding services.

POLICE DEPARTMENT: |
Chief Hager requested a motion to approve Resolution #26-076, Resolution to promote
Patrolman Justin Hammond to the full-time position of Sergeant for the Madison Township
Police Department at an hourly rate of forty-eight dollars and thirty-four cents ($48.34) with a
six (6) month probationary period effective May 28, 2026.

Mr. Sill presented a motion to approve Resolution #26-076, seconded by Mr. White. Roll Call:
Mr. Sill: Yes Mr. White: Yes Mr. Wayman: Yes

Chairman Pete Wayman performed the swearing-in ceremony for Sergeant Justin Hammond.
Mr. Wayman asked Justin Hammond to repeat after him.

“J, Justin Hammond, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States
and the Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio and that I will faithfully discharge duties of
full-time police officer of Madison Township in the rank of Sergeant according to the rules and
regulations of said township to which I have been appointed according to the law and to the best
of my ability.”

Sergeant Hammond was congratulated by the Board of Trustees and pictures were taken. Chief
Hager said Sergeant Hammond came to Madison from the Geneva Police Department.

Chief Hager requested a motion to approve Resolution #26-077, A Resolution by the Madison
Township Board of Trustees, Lake County, Ohio, requesting that the County Auditor certify the
| total current tax valuation of Madison Township and the dollar amount of revenue that will be
generated by the renewal of the 1.9 mil Police Levy.

Mr. White presented a motion to approve Resolution #26-077, seconded by Mr. Sill. Roll Call:
Mr. White: Yes Mr. Sill: Yes Mr. Wayman: Yes

Mr. Wayman stated this levy is very important for the Madison Police Department, and the
Township really needs this levy to go through.

LEGAL:

Mr. Pasqualone, Solicitor, stated the Township has two (2) pending cases, one in the Court of
Claims and one in Federal Court. The case in the Court of claims attempted to get a result by
mediation but was unsuccessful. This has gone on to a special master. Deadlines have to be
complied with for filing things and the other party has not met any of them yet. Mr. Pasqualone
said he would keep the Board posted on this. It is a public records request.

Mr. Pasqualone said, regarding the case in the Federal Court, he has contacted the attorney
provided to us by the Ohio Township Association Risk Management Authority (OTARMA) and
nothing has happened. Mr. Pasqualone said he will keep the Board posted on this case, as well.

FISCAL OFFICER:

Ms. Hamercheck, Fiscal Officer, stated she is still working on the budget. The new template
received this year is geared more for cities and not set up for townships. Ms. Hamercheck said it
is a very general template. Mr. Wayman said maybe it was prepared by someone with no
experience or knowledge of townships. A lot of townships will probably complain.

ZONING:

Mr. Ungers, Zoning Inspector, requested a motion to approve Resolution #26-078, A Resolution
authorizing the Township Administrator to proceed with the abatement of high grass and excess
refuse at listed properties, 6025 Chapel Road, 7121 Lake Road, 1585 Hazel Avenue, and 6046
Dundee Street.

Mr. Sill presented a motion to approve Resolution #26-078, seconded by Mr. White. Roll Call:
Mr. Sill: Yes Mr. White: Yes Mr. Wayman: Yes



RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS

Minutes of MADISON TOWNSHIP BOARD OF TRUSTEES’ REGULAR Meeting

GOVERNMENT FORMS & SUPPLIES 644-224-3338 FORM NO. 10148

Held May 28, 2026, at 12:00 P.M.

The listed properties are 6025 Chapel Road, Permanent Parcel #01-B-112-A-07-082-0; 7121
Lake Road, Permanent Parcel #01-B-102-B-00-016-0; 1585 Hazel Avenue, Permanent Parcel
#01-B-115-G-00-079-0; and 6046 Dundee Street, Permanent Parcel #01-B-112-A-07-009-0.
Mr. Ungers stated he received word that two (2) of the listed properties cut their grass within the
last few days. Also, next month there will be certified costs for between twelve (12) and fifteen
(15) properties who are repeat offenders and do not need Resolutions. Mr. Wayman said he
noticed the property on Route 20 next to the Bird Feed Station is out of control again. Mr. Ungers
said that is one of the chronic offenders.

SERVICE DEPARTMENT:

Mr. Price, Supervisor Service Department, requested a motion to approve Resolution #26-079,
A Resolution accepting the resignation of David LaRosa from the Madison Township Service
Department effective June 5, 2026.

Mr. White presented a motion to approve Resolution #26-079, seconded by Mr. Sill. Roll Call:
Mr. White: Yes Mr. Sill: Yes Mr. Wayman: Yes

Mr. White wanted to send a thank you to Mr. LaRosa for his years of dedication and service. Mr.
Wayman said Mr. LaRosa has been with Madison Township for many years and did a good job
for the Township, and the Board appreciates it and wishes him well. Mr. White said to remember
to thank him for the Board.

Mr. Price stated the new summer hours for the Service Department starts in June. Monday
through Thursday the hours are will be 6:30 A.M. to 3:30 P.M., and Friday from 6:30 A.M. to
10:30 P.M. These hours will be for June, July, and August, and will take advantage of the
daylight hours.

ADMINISTRATOR:

Mr. Cook, Administrator, said he had a few updates to report. The next Township Talk Meeting
will be held on Wednesday, June 10" at 9:00 A.M. This will be the fourth meeting. So far, the
Township has had one (1), twelve (12) and four (4) participants. The meetings seem to be going
well. Mr. DeBus from the News-Herald ran a nice article in the News-Herald, and, hopefully, it
will bring more residents to the next meeting. Mr. Cook stated the Township will continue the
meetings for a year. If no interest, the Township Talk Meetings will be discontinued.

Mr. Cook stated at the last meeting, the Township did not accept the one bid we received on the
Northway Project. The engineering was completed again with a few changes, and the project
will go out for bid again today and, hopefully, will entice more bids.

The 2026 Road Construction Program was to start this week. However, the contractor is one to
two (1 to 2) weeks behind. The Township will notify residents on Monday or Tuesday of next
week which roadways will be affected.

Good News on the Stanton Park Armor Stone Project. The Township received word that the
technical review is done. The engineers have looked over the project. Once the Township gets
a signature on the final papers that says we can proceed, the Township will send them to the
Director for approval.

Mr. Cook said there is no update on the Ohio Public Works Council (OPWC) Grant for the two-
phase project for catch basins, stormwater, and the entire roadway on Dave Drive. Also, no
update on the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) for the restroom improvements on
the restrooms at Madison Township Park. Both grants were submitted last month.

Mr. Cook stated he, Sara, and Marina met with Amanda Gordon last week regarding the
American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds. The Township is currently working on the
documentation that Amanda requested and the means and methods to get the funds moved so the
Township can spend the funds if so desired, to be in compliance with the Federal government.

OTHER:
Nothing



maDBECRARAFLRAGEFRIVAS necutan

Minutes of Meeting

__ ___ GOVERNMENT FORMS & SUPPLIES 844-224-3338 FORM NO. 10148 Sian
May 28, 2026, at 12:00 P.M:
Held 20

CITIZEN COMMENTS:

Mr. William Sivalon, 5963 Chapel Road, stated he came to the meeting to see how it goes and to
learn how the Township works so he can get more involved. He said he is a local realtor and has
another business. He was born in Las Vegas and moved to Madison in 2016. Mr. Sivalon said
he recently had a raccoon at his property, and the Police Department came to take a look, but the
Township has no animal control program. Mr. Sivalon said he is getting taxed for a twelve
hundred (1,200) square foot home, but his home is only nine hundred (900) square feet. Mr.
Wayman said Mr. Sivalon could go to the Lake County Auditor to discuss the matter. Sometimes,
Lake County will make an adjustment. Mr. Pasqualone stated a resident has until March 31* to
file a complaint after he gets his tax bill. Mr. Pasqualone said Mr. Sivalon has until March 31,
2027 to fill a complaint form for 2026. It would be better to file a complaint form than to just
walk into the Auditor’s office. Mr. Sivalon said he has been paying tax on his house since 2016.
Mr. Pasqualone stated Lake County will not go back that far. Mr. Sivalon thanked the Board for
listening to him. Mr. Wayman stated he knows there are a lot of raccoons in Madison. He deals
with them annually.

Ms. Amy Dufour, 2440 Haines Road, stated most everyone attending the meeting probably
already knows her. She addressed the Board and said she is the plaintiff in a records request case
which has been turned over now to a judge. Ms. Dufour said she had a question. Ms. Dufour
asked “why do you continue to break Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, public law
requests, and filter it through your attorney, Gary Pasqualone?” Ms. Dufour addressed Trustee
Joseph White and stated whenever he was running for election, she specifically asked him if he
would fight for the people and he said yes, he would fight for the people. “How is it that the
Township is breaking the law with FOIA requests and allowing the Police Department and the
Township to do so and filter it through Gary Pasqualone? “Why?” Mr. Pasqualone asked to
speak, but Ms. Dufour said she was asking Mr. Wayman. Mr. Wayman said the Township has a
legal representative for a reason, and Ms. Dufour does not want to hear from him. Ms. Dufour
said the Township filters everything through Gary Pasqualone. “Why?” She stated she was
going to make some requests that are legal. She is going to request every single wage for every
single Township employee and their positions. These are legal Ohio public requests and Sunshine
laws that you are breaking. Mr. Wayman said Gary Pasqualone is the Township’s legal
representative, and he will let him speak now.

Mr. Pasqualone stated that he represents Madison Township as its Solicitor. When you file an
action in court, he handles it. An attorney is going to handle anything in court. Ms. Dufour said
the Township has a Records Custodian then. “What job is that if she is not getting records?” Mr.
Pasqualone stated the Records Custodian answers every one of your public records requests. Just
look on the letterhead that you receive from him, and the letter will be signed by the Records
Custodian. Ms. Dufour said the Records Custodian has never done so. Ms. Dufour stated she
has to file a complaint to get a public record. She asked Mr. Pasqualone how he can be trusted
with the Township’s money if he can’t even follow public law? “What are you all hiding?” Mr.
Wayman said that is Ms. Dufour’s opinion, and she is entitled to have an opinion. Ms. Dufour
said “public records are supposed to be anonymous, and you guys made her not anonymous and
broke that privacy.” Mr. Pasqualone stated this case will be handled in the Court of Claims and
not here in this meeting. Ms. Dufour received a response from the court that the case was
dismissed and did not think it was sufficient so the case is back in the Court of Claims. Ms.
DuFour asked if the public records she requests in the future will be filtered through Mr.
Pasqualone. Mr. Pasqualone said yes, they would be. Ms. Dufour stated “then we will continue
to go to court, and this will be a continued issue until she makes it public that you guys are
breaking Ohio law.”

Mr. Tom Brass, 6957 Chapel Road, addressed the Board on a happy note and said the Road
Department did a good job on Saturday with sticks and mulch at the Yard Waste Drop-Off
location. The Service Department does a good job, and Mr. Brass will talk to Mr. Price after the
Meeting.

Mr. Wayman asked if anyone had anything else to discuss, and with no further business,
requested a motion to adjourn.

Mr. Sill presented a motion to adjourn the Meeting, seconded by Mr. White. Roll Call: Mr.
Sill: Yes Mr. White: Yes Mr. Wayman: Yes



RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS

Minutes of MADISON TOWNSHIP BOARD OF TRUSTEES’ REGULAR Meeting

GOVERNMENT FORMS & SUPPLIES 844-224-3338 FORM NO. 10148

Held May 28, 2026, at 12:00 P.M. 20

Mr. Wayman stated the next Trustees’ Workshop Meeting will be on June 9, 2026, at 6:30

P.M. with the Trustees’ Regular Meeting immediately following on June 9, 2026, at 7:00
* PM.

Chairman Wayman adjourned the Trustees’ Regular Meeting at 12:32 P.M.

Peter V. Wayman, Phairman Sarah Hamergheck Fiscal officer

