TOWN OF BUENA VISTA, COLORADO
ORDINANCE NO. 13
(SERIES OF 2026)

AN EMERGENCY ORDINANCE IMPOSING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON
THE ACCEPTANCE, PROCESSING AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS FOR DATA
CENTERS IN THE TOWN OF BUENA VISTA, COLORADO

WHEREAS, the Town currently does not permit data centers pursuant to its land use
regulations;

WHEREAS, the Town desires to review and study the use of property for data centers and
while doing so, impose a moratorium, to ensure any data center use is considered pursuant to
adequate regulations to balance the interest of owners against the public interest in regulating the
development and potential impacts of data centers;

WHEREAS, the Town requires time to evaluate its current regulations and potentially
develop data center specific regulations;

WHEREAS, the moratorium imposed by this Ordinance is intended to prevent the
issuance of any permits for data centers in the Town on a temporary basis in order to allow the
Town to analyze and apply the state of the law and regulations, to draft appropriate ordinances
pertaining to the same, and to allow public comment prior to adoption of any such ordinance; and
in order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the Town; and

WHEREAS, in light of the foregoing, the Board of Trustees wishes to institute an
approximately six (6) month moratorium until December 9, 2026, on the submission, acceptance,
processing, and approval of applications for data centers after the date of adoption of this
Ordinance.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF
THE TOWN OF BUENA VISTA, COLORADO, THAT:

Section]. Findings and Intent. The above and foregoing recitals are incorporated
herein by reference and adopted as findings and determinations of the Board of Trustees of the
Town of Buena Vista.

Section2. | Moratorium. Effective upon the adoption of this Ordinance, a temporary
moratorium on the acceptance, processing, and approval of any application for a data centers, as
described in Section 3, within the Town is hereby imposed.

Section 3. Scope. This ordinance shall apply to data centers which are the principal
use on a parcel or lot and are constructed and developed for the purpose of storing, processing,
managing, transmitting, hosting, collocating, cloud computing, AI computing, cryptocurrency
mining, or similar handling of digital information regardless of whether the equipment is owned
by a single user, multiple tenants, or operated as a service for third parties. Accessory uses such
as on-site servers, networking equipment, or other data processing facilities solely to support non-
data center operations on the same parcel or lot are not subject to this moratorium.


Section 4. Duration. The moratorium shall remain in effect until December 9, 2026,
unless extended or shortened by further action of the Board of Trustees.

Section 5. Authority. The Town Board hereby finds, determines, and declares that it
has the power to adopt this Ordinance pursuant to the Local Government Land Use Control
Enabling Act, Article 20 of Title 29C.R.S.,. and Part 3 of Article 23 of Title 31, C.R.S.

Section 6. Emergency Declaration. This Ordinance is being adopted as an emergency
ordinance because permitting additional short-term rental licenses under the Town’s current
regulations could result in legal issues for the Town and could result in additional short-term
rentals in the Town, which are inconsistent with the Town’s interests in preserving neighborhood
character, safety, and affordable housing opportunities.

Section 7. Severability. If any article, section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase
of this Ordinance is held to be unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such decision shall not
affect the validity or constitutionality of the remaining portions of this Ordinance. The Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed this Ordinance and each part or parts hereof
irrespective of the fact that any part is declared unconstitutional or invalid.

Section 8. Safety. This Ordinance is deemed necessary for the immediate protection
of the health, welfare, and safety of the community.

INTRODUCED, READ, ADOPTED AND ORDERED PUBLISHED this 9th day of
June, 2026.

THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE UPON ADOPTION.

TOWN OF BUENA VISTA, COLORADO

~ By: Kibebe

Libby Fay, Mayor

eeePbog

ATTEST: usta Coy

Zl

Ed Barkowski, Town Clerk

Ope.

feananat®

OR ara Ooh

Peoaeae?
