                                           Attachment 2



                                  RESOLUTION #R-[__]-2026

A RESOLUTION IMPOSING A SUSPENSION (MORATORIUM) UPON THE CITY’S
PROCESSING OF NEW LAND USE APPLICATIONS FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF
DATA CENTERS

       WHEREAS, the City of Loveland, Colorado (the “City”), is a home rule municipality
and political subdivision of the State of Colorado (the “State”) organized and existing under a
home rule charter (the “Charter”) pursuant to Article XX of the Constitution of the State; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to its constitutional home rule powers and its statutory police
powers, the City possesses broad authority to regulate land use, development, and the provision
of municipal utilities within its boundaries to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of its
residents; and




                   AF
        WHEREAS, the City’s current Unified Development Code defines and regulates "data
centers" uniformly as a singular use type, treating all such facilities equally regardless of their
size, peak electrical demand, or water consumption profiles; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the City Council’s adopted Rules of Procedure, Councilmember




                      T
Rothberg invoked the “Rule of Four,” receiving the necessary support to direct the drafting and
scheduling of a resolution establishing a temporary suspension on certain types of large-scale
data center facilities; and

        WHEREAS, the principle of simultaneous infrastructure scaling dictates that water,
power, and data are structurally inseparable, meaning that an escalation in data processing
capacity triggers an automatic, lock-stepped expansion in electric grid strain and water resource
extraction whereby a strain on any single one of these resources destabilizes the other two; and



   R    WHEREAS, artificial intelligence data center campuses use varying amounts of power
that could impact the electric grid and therefore require coordination with the Utilities
Department and the Platte River Power Authority (“PRPA”); and

       WHEREAS, data center cooling methods present distinct resource tradeoffs, as



D
evaporative cooling systems demand high volumes of water, while dry or closed-loop outdoor
cooling systems drastically reduce water use but require significantly more electricity; and

        WHEREAS, the state legislature recently postponed two major pieces of data center
legislation indefinitely, Senate Bill 26-102 and House Bill 26-1030, meaning there is currently
no statewide regulatory framework to address emerging large-load data centers; and

       WHEREAS, this lack of statewide regulation leaves the burden on local governments to
manage the impacts of data center growth, prompting numerous Colorado jurisdictions—
including Denver, Longmont, Broomfield, Woodland Park, and the counties of Jefferson,
Boulder, Larimer, Saguache, Archuleta, and Weld—to recently enact their own suspensions
(moratoriums) or updated zoning codes; and


                                          Attachment 2



        WHEREAS, the City Council acknowledges that, when properly sited and regulated,
data centers may provide significant municipal benefits, including job creation in adjacent
construction and maintenance sectors, serving as a catalyst for future infrastructure development,
and offering financial opportunities to increase the City's sales and use tax base; and that the City
desires to study these potential benefits during this Suspension (as defined below) to ensure that
future data center developments, to the extent permitted, operate as a net positive for the
community; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the City Council needs to review and
may need to reconsider, revise, amend, restate and/or finalize the rules and regulations set forth
in the Unified Development Code to appropriately differentiate and regulate data center uses
based upon their scale and utility impacts; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has determined and hereby determines that it is necessary




                   AF
and in the best interest of the City and its inhabitants, to impose a suspension on the City’s
processing of new land use applications for Applicable Data Centers (as defined below)
consistent with this Resolution until the rules and regulations set forth in the Unified
Development Code have been updated, revised and finalized, or six (6) months have elapsed,
whichever is sooner; provided, however, that applicants of new data centers may engage with
City staff and participate in the development review process during the Term (as defined below),




LOVELAND, COLORADO:
                      T
but they do so at their own risk; and

       WHEREAS, the City’s power to impose this suspension is among its home rule powers
granted to it in Article XX of the Colorado Constitution.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF




  R    Section 1. Recitals. The City Council hereby makes and adopts the determinations and
findings contained in the recitals set forth above.

        Section 2. Suspension. A suspension (moratorium) is hereby imposed on the City’s
acceptance, processing, approval, permitting, rezoning, and site plan review of new land use
applications for certain types of data centers. For the purposes of this Resolution, the Suspension



D
applies to any facility for which the primary purpose is the storage, processing, or transmission
of digital data, including high-density computing, server farms, and artificial intelligence training
or inference facilities, which projects an electrical demand of 10 megawatts or more, or utilizes
industrial-scale cooling infrastructure (the “Suspension” or “Applicable Data Centers”). The
Suspension does not apply to routine maintenance activities, enterprise server rooms that are
accessory to a primary business, government-owned emergency infrastructure, applications
deemed technically complete prior to the effective date of this Resolution, and projects
possessing statutory, UDC, or common law vested property rights. The Suspension does not
prevent applicants considering the construction of data centers from engaging with City staff and
participating in the concept review process during the Term (as defined below), but applicants do
so at their own risk.



                                                 2


                                          Attachment 2



         Section 3. Term. The term of the Suspension shall begin on the effective date of this
Resolution and shall expire on the date City Council approves, adopts and finalizes
comprehensive data center regulations within the Unified Development Code, or six (6) months
from the effective date, whichever occurs first (the “Term”), unless sooner terminated by the
City Council. During this Term, the City Manager is directed to evaluate resource demand,
utility impacts, economic burdens, economic benefits, zoning, emissions, and sustainability
standards, including studying the feasibility of incorporating regional regulations such as
Longmont's prohibition of hyperscale data centers requiring 100 megawatts or more, and Weld
County's requirements for mandatory electrical “will serve” letters, decibel noise limits at
property lines, and restrictions limiting data centers to industrial zones while prohibiting them in
other zones.

        Section 4. Approvals for Other Development. Notwithstanding anything contained
herein to the contrary, nothing in this Resolution shall prevent the City Council from considering




                   AF
and granting land use approvals for other forms of commercial, industrial, or residential
development nor shall this Resolution prevent any landowner from seeking approval for the
creation of other types of development that do not meet the targeted Suspension definition.

        Section 5. Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, clause or other provision
of this Resolution shall for any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or




                      T
unenforceability thereof shall not affect any of the remaining sections, subsections, paragraphs,
clauses or provisions hereof.

        Section 6. Statutes Superseded. Pursuant to Article XX of the State Constitution and the
Charter, all State statutes that might otherwise apply in connection with the provisions of this
Resolution are hereby superseded to the extent of any inconsistencies or conflicts between the
provisions of this Resolution and such statutes. Any such inconsistency or conflict is intended by
the City Council and shall be deemed made pursuant to the authority of Article XX of the State



  R
Constitution and the Charter.

       Section 7. Effective Date. This Resolution shall be effective as of the date of its
adoption.




D      ADOPTED this ___ day of September, 2026.



                                                  CITY OF LOVELAND, COLORADO

                                                  ______________________________________
                                                  Patrick McFall, Mayor

ATTEST:


                                                 3


Attachment 2

Ashley McDonald, City Clerk
