8/14/2026 8:00 AM




                                       Board of Trustees
                                         Regular Meeting
                               Thursday, August 20, 2026, 6:00 p.m.

                                        Attend in person:
                    Cedaredge Civic Center, Grand Mesa Room, 140 NW 2nd St.

                                     Attend virtually:
               On Your Computer: https://bit.ly/4g05iJg | Password: 614828
      On Your Phone: 253-215-8782 | Webinar ID: 893 8343 6979 | Password: 614828
       NOTE: Persons attending remotely may experience technical difficulty. While the
       Town attempts to have technology working to accommodate remote participation,
       there can be times when technology is not working properly thereby impacting
       the ability to listen or present.

                                             AGENDA

   6:00PM      Call to Order

   1. Pledge of Allegiance

   2. Roll Call

   3. Agenda Approval.                                                             (5 Minutes)
      Trustees will consider accepting the agenda as presented or if it should be modified.
      Adding new items is limited to emergency matters needing immediate attention that arose
      after the agenda was posted.

                                         WORK SESSION
                    Please note that decisions are not made at Work Sessions.

   4. Board Training: Good Governance and Meeting Procedures                 (60 Minutes)
         a. Mr. Nick Cotten-Baez, Associate General Counsel, CIRSA, has been invited to
            provide the Board of Trustees with information regarding good governance
            techniques and Board meeting procedures.

   5. Delta County Land Use Code (LUC).                                      (30 Minutes)
         a. Receive information about possible impacts on Cedaredge. [Invited: Mr. Tom
             Kay]




Board of Trustees                         Page |1
Agenda, 8/20/2026


8/14/2026 8:00 AM


                                   REGULAR MEETING

   6. Public Comment Period
      There is a sign-up sheet at the lectern for constituents who would like to address the
      Board. Online constituents should use the raise your hand feature. We will recognize the
      oldest first, newest last order.
      When there is a public hearing on the agenda, there will be a separate public comment
      period. A separate in person sign-up sheet is provided for that, and online participants
      should follow the same raise your hand procedure for commenting during that time.
      Constituents, whether in person or online may address the Board of Trustees about any
      issue. Regardless of being in person or online, please state your name and address for the
      record. You have three (3) minutes to address the Board of Trustees. When the Chair or
      the Town Clerk signals the time has ended, please wrap up your comments. When the
      scheduled public comment period ends, the Chair will not recognize public speakers
      other than invited persons/consultants. The Board of Trustees are not authorized under
      Colorado Open Meetings Law to discuss, comment, or take action at this meeting on any
      issue raised under constituent time that is not part of tonight’s agenda. Please keep all
      comments cordial. Personal attacks on Staff or the Board will not be tolerated. The Chair
      may refer the matter to the Town Administrator and/or the Town Attorney for immediate
      comment after Constituent Time, or to staff to obtain additional information.

   7. Consent Agenda.                                                              (5 Minutes)
      These are matters considered to be routine and do not require discussion by the Trustees.
      All items on the consent agenda may be taken in one action. A Trustee may request to
      pull an item off the consent agenda and add it to the regular agenda for discussion and
      consideration prior to taking action on other consent items.
          a. Minutes: 8/6/2026 Regular Meeting
          b. Financial Statements: Ending July 2026
          c. Disbursements: July2026
          d. Approve Lease Agreement; Renewing a Sidewalk Service Lease Agreement for
              DRM Holdings, LTD (dba Sips on Main).
          e. Approve Lease Agreement; Renewing a Sidewalk Service Lease Agreement for
              Booz Brothers LLC (dba The Pondy).
          f. Approve Lease Agreement; Accepting a Sidewalk Service Lease Agreement for
              Cathy Timmer (dba Cat’s on Main).
          g. Approve Lease Agreement; Accepting a Sidewalk Lease Agreement with Grand
              Mesa Arts Center, Inc. (dba Grand Mesa Arts & Events Center) for a poetry stand.

   8. Public Hearing; Special Events Permits (GMAEC).                        (20 Minutes)
      Approve issuance of Special Events Permits for Grand Mesa Arts and Events Center
      (GMAEC) at four locations: 1) 725 SE Pine St., Cedaredge, CO 81413; 2) 515 SE
      Stonebridge Dr., Cedaredge, CO 81413; 3) 235 SW 8th Ave., Cedaredge, CO 81413; and
      4) 1672 S. Grand Mesa Dr., Cedaredge, CO 81413.




Board of Trustees                      Page |2
Agenda, 8/20/2026


8/14/2026 8:00 AM


   9. Public Hearing; Special Events Permit (Historical Society).             (20 Minutes)
      Approve issuance of a Special Events Permit for Surface Creek Valley Historical Society
      (Historical Society) at 388 S. Grand Mesa Dr., Cedaredge, CO 81413.

   10. Data Center Moratorium                                               (15 minutes)
          a. Consider Ordinance 2026-XX establishing a moratorium on data centers in all
             zoning designations within the Town of Cedaredge.

   11. Region 10; Senior Meals Program MOU                               (15 minutes)
          Continued from 7/23/2026.
          b. Consider a memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for a senior meals program at
             the Cedaredge Civic Center. [Invited: Region 10 AAA]

   12. 2026 General Election.                                                     (20 Minutes)
          Continued from 8/6/2026 Work Session and Town Hall 8/10/2026.
          a. Consider Resolution XX-2026; Submitting to the Electorate of the Town of Cedaredge at
              the November 3, 2026, Coordinated Election, a Certain Question Authorizing the Increase of
              Sales and Use Taxes for the Purposes Described in the Ballot Question.
           b. Consider Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with Delta County (Clerk and
              Recorder) specifying terms and procedures for the conduct of the General Election which
              is scheduled for November 3, 2026.

   13. Liaison Reports.                                                         (15 Minutes)
       This is a time for Trustees assigned to various Commissions, Committees and Boards to
       provide verbal updates on matters concerning the Board of Trustees
          a. Planning and Zoning Commission (Mayor Hart , Mayor Pro Tem Atkinson). Next
               meeting 9/1/26.
          b. Golf Course Advisory Board (Mayor Hart, Mayor Pro Tem Atkinson, Trustee
               Hoffbauer). 8/11/26.
          c. Tree Board. (Trustee Steiner). TBD
          d. Recreation Advisory Board (Mayor Hart, Trustee Hoffbauer). Pending
               appointments. 8/26/2026
          e. CML-Legislative (Vacant)
          f. Club 20 (Mayor Hart)
          g. Region 10 Board/Executive Committee (Mayor Hart). 8/13/2026
          h. Gunnison River Basin (Mayor Pro Tem Atkinson)
          i. Delta County Mosquito Control District (Trustee Anderson, Trustee Chapman)
          j. Town Administrator Recruitment (Trustee/Treasurer Murray, Trustee Hoffbauer)
          k. Water Committee (Mayor Pro Tem Atkinson, Trustee Anderson, Trustee
               Chapman). 8/17/2026

   14. Trustee Comments.                                                         (10 Minutes)
       This is the time for Trustees to comment on any matter not otherwise on the agenda. A
       Trustee can make a request for a future agenda item. Trustee comments can also be a time
       where a trustee makes community service announcements such as information about an


Board of Trustees                         Page |3
Agenda, 8/20/2026


8/14/2026 8:00 AM


       upcoming event (not necessarily Town sponsored), bring things to staff’s attention that
       might need to be fixed/addressed.

   15. Adjourn: Next Meeting, September 17, 2026




Board of Trustees                       Page |4
Agenda, 8/20/2026


                                          MEMORANDUM

To:                 Mayor and Board of Trustees

From:               Bo Nerlin, Town Attorney
                    Carl Holm, Interim Town Administrator

Agenda Date:        August 20, 2026

Item:               WORK SESSION: Good Governance and Board Training

Attached:           A) Training Outline

RECOMMENDATION(S):
Receive training from CIRSA

SUMMARY/DISCUSSION:
Staff planned a training session with the expectation that there would be at least one new Board
member following the Municipal Election in April 2026. Mr. Nick Cotten-Baez, Associate
General Counsel, CIRSA, will provide the Board of Trustees with information regarding good
governance techniques and Board meeting procedures.




Annual Board Training
8/20/2026; Board of Trustees
Page 1 of 1


      Agenda Item No. 4
      Board Training
      Nick Cotton-Baez
      Associate General Counsel -CIRSA

      CIRSA's Risk Management for Municipal Officials training is intended to enhance
      elected official effectiveness and success, while reducing liability exposure for the
      municipal organization, the governing body, and the body’s individual members.
      Presented by CIRSA's Associate General Counsel, Nick Cotton-Baez, the training
      will address the roles and responsibilities of elected officials; the importance of
      acting collectively, respecting the Town’s organizational structure, and following
      established procedures; governmental immunity and personal liability protections;
      Colorado’s open meetings and public records laws; due process requirements in
      quasi-judicial proceedings; and ethical obligations, conflicts of interest, and public
      perception. Throughout the training, participants with learn practical rules of thumb
      for making informed, transparent, and defensible decisions.




NICK COTTON-BAEZ
Nick joined CIRSA as Associate General Counsel in 2024. Before joining CIRSA,
Nick worked in the Denver City Attorney’s Office, and then for a Denver-based
municipal law firm where he served as general and special counsel for
municipalities and public entities throughout Colorado. At CIRSA, Nick is a
trusted resource for municipal officials seeking to understand and manage
liability risk exposure in the complex legal landscape governing public
entities. Nick frequently provides training for elected and appointed officials
and municipal staff on risk management topics tailored to the unique
challenges faced by municipal organizations. Nick and Sam Light have been
leading CIRSA’s efforts to familiarize municipal staff with the opportunities and
risks associated with the use of artificial intelligence systems in local
government operations. Nick received his law degree from the Indiana
University Maurer School of Law in 2016.




                                                                         (Back to Top)


                                        MEMORANDUM

To:                 Mayor and Board of Trustees

From:               Carl Holm, Interim Town Administrator

Agenda Date:        August 20, 2026

Item:               WORK SESSION: Delta County LUC

Attached:           A) HCS Articles; B) 2026 LUC Amendment Summary; C) LUC Table 2.a

RECOMMENDATION(S):
  a. Consider possible unintended consequences (impacts) to the Town as a result of the Delta
     County Land Use Code.
  b. Authorize the Mayor to communicate with other Towns within Delta County for possible
     comments on the Delta County Land Use Code update.

SUMMARY:
A concern was raised about the permissive nature of the Delta County Land Use Code (LUC)
and how that might be impacting commercial uses (economic development) in Cedaredge. The
High Country Spotlight ran a 3-part article that was within the July 22, 29 and August 5 issues
(Exhibit A).

The full LUC can be found on the Delta County website under Planning and Community
Development – Land Use regulations. There is a separate tab for the current LUC Update effort,
and staff received a summary of the proposed amendments (Exhibit B).

Mr. Tom Kay has been invited to participate in the discussion. He has experience with
implementing the LUC as a Delta County Planning Commissioner, formerly a developer, and has
been following the LUC updates.

DISCUSSION:
On January 5, 2021, Delta County adopted a Land Use Code (LUC) for the unincorporated areas
of Delta County. While this was the beginning of zoning (zoning map) in Delta County, there
were a number of existing regulations that were incorporated into the LUC (Specific Use
Permits, Site Plan Review, Subdivision). In 2022, the County initiated a comprehensive update
addressing various issues that came up as part of the initial LUC implementation.

On February 21, 2024, a revised LUC was adopted. Some of the key changes to the 2024 version
that might be pertinent to Cedaredge include, but is not limited to:
    - UGA (Urban Growth Area) zoning designation (7,500 sf minimum lot) was changed to
       RES-1 (Residential, 1.0 acre minimum lot). Note that there a variance can be requested to
       reduce the minimum lot size.
Delta County LUC
8/20/2026; Board of Trustees
Page 1 of 2


-   Urban Growth Area Overlay. Established to apply near incorporated municipalities where
    urban services are available.
-   Site Plan Review was removed. People are able to develop provided it complies with the
    LUC regulations (access, water, etc.). Development that does not comply is limited to
    reactive code enforcement (after-the-fact).
-   Table 2.b; Land Use by Zoning District. Defines what uses are allowed in what zoning
    designation (Exhibit C):
        o Allowed Use. No review. Agritourism is allowed in all zones, which opens a big
            door to commercial uses.
        o Limited Use. Some uses are required to provide notification to neighbors.
            Commercial uses are allowed in residential zones, many with no notification.
        o Conditional Use. Public hearing required.
-   Special Events. Allowed anywhere provided it meets standards.
-   Home Businesses. Allowed anywhere, any time, provided it meets standards.


Hage 4 - High Country spotiignt * July ¢é, 2uzo

www HighCountryspotiign¢.com

Three Land Use Code Amendments Head to Public

Hearing in Delta County

By AMANDA KETTENRING Stalt Writer

On, Wednesday, July 29, the Delta County Planning
Commission will hold a public hearing to gather public
input on three proposed amendments to the Delta Coun-
ty Land Use Code (LUC): regulations for Battery Energy
Storage Systems and Natural Medicine Businesses, and a
series of text amendments affecting site plan reviews and
special events.

The Land Use Code has remained a topic of public dis-
cussion since its adoption in 2021 and revision in 2024,
Supporters say the code provides consistent standards
that protect public health, safety, and neighboring property
owners. Critics argue that some regulations create prohibi-
tive costs, delays, and uncertainty for property awners and
rural businesses and discourage small gusinesses from
coming to the area.

The proposed amendments come as Delta County
hires a new Planning and Community Development Direc
tor, Oran Stainbrook, the department's fifth director in four
years.

County officials are encouraging residents, property
‘ownera, businesses, and community partners to review
the proposed changes and provide feedback during the
public review process. According to the county's Land Use
Code Update webpage, “Public input is an important part
of the Land Use Code amendment process.” >

Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS)

Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) store electricity
for later use, helping stabilize the electric grid and support
Tenewable energy production, Utility-scale systems type
cally consist of rows of container-slzed battery units capa-
ble of storing large amounts of electricity.

The proposed amendment does not approve any spe-
cific battery storage project. Instead, it establishes the
rules that would apply if a utility-scale BESS facility were
proposed in Delta County.

The amendment creates three categories of battery
storage _ systems—residantial, commercial, and utili-
ty-scale—and requires utility-scale facilities to obtain a
Conditional Use Permit. That process includes a pre-appli-
cation meeting, detailed engineering studies, public hear-
ings, and county approval before construction can begin,

‘The proposal also establishes where facilities may be
located and includes’ requirements for fire ‘protection,
emergency response planning, hazard analyses, environ-
mental protections, and ongoing safety measures.

Battery storage projects have generated much public
discussion in Delta County and elsewhere. Some residents
have expressed concerns about fire risks, noise, environ:
mental impacts, and whether local emergency responders
have adequate training, Others support the technology for
its potential to improve arid reliably and store renewable
energy.

Natural Medicine Biisinoises

The second amendment would establish land use regu-
lations for Natural Medicine Businesses, including healing
centers, cultivation facilities, manufacturing facilities, and
testing laboratories associated with Colorado's regulated
natural medicine program.

Colorado law permits regulated use of certain naturally
occurring psychedelic substances—including psilocybin,
psitocin, dimathyltryptamine (DMT), ibogaine, and mesca-
line—for approved therapeutic purposes.

Dotta-Courtty has maintained a moratorium on Natural
Medicine Businesssa for more than a year while officials
consider how to ragulate them through the Land Use Code.

The proposed amendment would add two new com-
metclal land use categories; Natural Medicine Busine:
Healing Center, and Natural Medicine Business: Cultiva-
tion, ing, or Testing Facility.

the pr all Netural ine Bi
would be 00;
* Obtain hoth a state license and a County Conditional

uv. Propased

hare

Land
inthe

Use Permit,

* Be located at least 1,000 feet from schools and daycare
facilities.

+ Submit a Transportation Management Plan addressing
emergency vehicle access and patient transportation
ater treatment,

+ Operate only in commercial facilities—not as home
businesses.

+ Post emergency contact information.

+ Store materialsin enclosed containers to reduce odors.

+ Renew their Conditional Use Permit annually.

Supporters have pointed to potential therapeutic and
economic benefits, while others have raised questions
about public safety and compatibility with surrounding
neighborhoods.

Text Amendments.

The third proposal contains a series of text amend-
ments throughout the Land Use Code.

Many of the changes are technical in nature, includ-
ing correcting inconsistencies, clarifying procedures, and
aligning portions of tha code with state law,

However, two proposed changes have drawn particular
attention.

Site Plan Review for Allowed Uses

Under the current.code, many land uses are permitted
“by right” tneaning they areallowed without a Site Pian
Review, provided they comply with applicable regulations.

The proposed amendment would change Ost ofthose

uses to pelos ed "it adopted;
beth On See © ‘site plans for"
ena ee

clutiing single-family hommes, dodessory dwalling
a home Businesses, equestrian facilities, parks, and
several agricultural support uses,

According to the proposed amendment, the purpose of
the change is to-ensure develapment complies with coun-
ty standards and to help protest public safety and neigh+
boring properties. ~ =
Some property overs and business awnors have ox-
pressed concern that requiring Site Plan Reviews for uses

‘atin ehons Argan

may affect j

4 Katlensing,

previously allowed by right 1s county overreach and will in-
crease project costs, paperwork, and approval timelines.

Changes to Special Event Permits

The proposed amendments would also expand permit-
ting requirements for certain temporary special events.

Under the praposal, events requiring a Limited Use Per-
mit would need to. submit an application at least 90 days
before the event, hold a neighborhood meeting at least
30 days beforehand, and provide additional documen-
tation, including site plans, parking layouts, attendance
estimates, restroom locations, emergency access, secu
rity measures, noise management, lighting plans, and fire
safety information.

Some agritourism operators have expressed concern
that the additional requirements could make hosting sea-
sonal events too difficult and expensive. County docu-
ments state the proposed changes are intended to reduce
potential impacts on neighboring properties and help en-
sure events are conducted safely.

Residents can review the proposed amendments on
the county's Land Use Code Update webpage.

Comments may be submitted during the public review
period or presented at the public hearing.

The Planning Commission will hold its public hearing
on Wednesday, July 29, at 6:30 pm in the Roubideaux Room
‘of the Delta County Human Services Building, 320 W. 5th
Streetiin/Delta:

Following the hearing, the Planning Commission is-ex-
to make recommendations to the Oalta Board of
‘Commissioners, which will ister hold its own pub-

lic hearing before deciding whether to adopt the amend-
ments,

This is Part 1 of @ three-part series examining the pro-
posed Land Use Code amendments and the broader de-
bate aver land use regulation in Delta County. Next week,
we'll ook at why some business owners say county regula-
tlons have became increasingly burdensome, while coun-
ty officials sey the regulations are intended to provide clear
standards and protect public health, safety, and neighbor
ing property owners,


Page 4 ~ High Country Spotlight ® July 29, 2026

Part Two: Growing Pains of a Rural County —
Agritourism and Regulation in Delta County

www.HighCountrySpetlight.com

By AMANDA KETTENRING Staf Writer

Last fall, Sage View Ranch, owned by Laurie and Scott
Mitchell, hosted Jammin’ for Justice, a concert the Mitch-
ells described as “a grassroots stand for local farmers,
ranchers, and rural businesses fighting\to keep agritour-
ism alive in Delta County, \During the event and in the
weeks that followed, they. collacted 2200 signatures sup:
porting agritourism.

For the Mitchells, the concert reflected growing frus-
tration among some longtime businesses that believe
Delta County's approach to land.useshas: fundamentally
changed =e

Business owners point to whet they sea as a shift from
the broad support for agritounm outlined in the county's
2018 Master Plan to the mote Uétailed regulatory trame-
work establistied through thm 2021 and 2024 Land Use
Gode (LUC). They say the county hasiecome increasingly
focutied on permitting, Ihfrastructiite requirements, and
enforcement, making it harder for small rural businesses
to operate.

County officials, however, say the changes are a re-
sponse to growth and donot signal a departure from sup
porting agriculture

“We are going to have to grow and adapt,” Gammission-
er Wendell Koontz said. "And that's what we're doing now
with the Land Use Codes. If there were 500 people living
in Delta County, we would notneed
a Land Use Code, but there are
31,000”

Koontz said the code is Intend-
ed to balance individual proper:
ty rights with responsibilities! to
neighboring property owners.

“We were really trying to cratt
this in a way that gave people the
ability to do what they want, to
meet their goals and objectives
in their life and properties, but be responsible. for what
they're doing to their neighbors and the community.”

An Evolving Code

Many agritourism business owners say one of their big:
gest frustrations has been uncertainty,

"It you look at the Land Use Code, nothing matches,
said Cindie Sorensen of Zen Zen Gardens. “You've got a
contradiction here and another thing here and something
else here, all related to the same thing, and they all say dif-
ferent things.”

Several business owners interviewed for this story also
said they received different interpretations of the code
from different planning staff over time.

That inconsistency has coincided with significanttturn-
over in the Planning and Community Development Depart-
ment, which has has five planning directorsin four years.

Gounty Administrator Robbie LeValley acknowledged
the tumover but said it reflected strong employees being

The concert reflected growing
frustration among some
longtime businesses that

believe Delta County’s
Approach to land use has
fundamentally changed

The paviiior at Sage View Ranch. Photo submilied by Laune Mite:
recruited elsewhere.

“We've had good people, and other good entities have
wanted to hire them,” she said, adding that similar turnover
has ocourred in neighboring counties.

LeValley also acknowledged that portions of the Land
Use Code have been unclear.

“There is some ambiguity in the Land Use Code, and
that’s created the different answers,” she said. “That's why
Shawn and Oran have really buckted down and gone ex:
haustively through that Land Use Code,” (Shawn Gardner
is the former Planning and Community Development Di-
rector, and Oran Stainbraok is the.new one.)

Public Information Officer Lindsay Mitchell said the
LUC has always been presented as'a“working document,”
teValley and Kaontz/agreed, saying the currentiround of
proposed amendments is intended to. address ambiguities
that have become apparent during the code's first several
years of implementation.

"We're at the stage now, five years in, where we can
took at.where the code protects people and where it has
unintended consequences,” Koantz said,

The Cost of Compliance

For some established agritourism businesses, those
growing pains have come with real financial costs.

Business awners say they have been asked to invest in
traffic studies, water system improvements, upgraded re-
stroom facilities, and other infrastructure while also facing
the possibility of higher property
taxes if portions of their operations
are classified as commercial rather
than agricultural

Sorensen said those require-
ments can be especially difficult for
businesses that were established
jong before the current. Land Use
Code.

“I've already spent that money
creating the business,” she said,
"That's Why we should have been|grandfatherediin, We've
already spent the money for infrastructure the way that we
thought it would work then. So what do we do? That money
doesn't exist.

Scott Mitchell expressed concern that increasing com:
mercial requirements could ultimately undermine the agri-
cultural operations they are intended to support.

“Commercially taxing agritourism out of business is not
supporting agriculture,” he said,

County officials say consistency is essential.

“Economic growth has got to happen in an atmosphere
of certainty afd consistency,” Koontz said. “Everybody
gets treated the same. That's. our goal, and that’s .aur.re-
sponsibility”

He said some of the proposed amendments, including
requiring Site Plan Reviews for many Uses currently al-
{owed by right, are intended to help property owners iden-

tify issues early rather than discovering problems after
construction has begun.

“It's about saving people from long-term hassle,” Koontz
said

He also pointed to a large event permitted this year that,
after working through the County's review process, pro-
ceeded successfully foliowing concerns the previous year.

“We do not want ta be Gunnison or Mesa or Montrose
Counties in the amount of regulations,” Koontz said, But he
said the County needs enough regulation for people to co
exist peacefully,

Rebuilding Trust

Beyond apecific regulations, many business owners say
the larger issue is trust

Some’ d@clined'to be interviewed for this story, saying
they feared possible fetaliation from the county far speak-
ing publicly,

Koontz strongly rejected that possibility,

“We absoiutely will not retaliate in this county,” he said,
“That is unacceptable behavior.”

He said county staff is expected to approach residents
with a customer-service mindset,

"These are our citizens. They are paying the bills, and
we need to remember that”

Some business owners say they would like to see more
collaboration when compliance issues arise.

Rather than immediate enforcement, Sorensen said
she hopes County staff would first work alongside busi
nesses to develop practical solutions.

“They'd say, ‘Hey Cindy, we noticed that X, Y, and Z ar-
en't happening, but let's figure it out together and make it
0 you have enough time to become compliant, We're not
going to shut you down,”

Koontz said helping people succeed has long been part
of the County's philosophy.

“When we were putting the Land Use Code together,
our mantra was, ‘How do we get to yes?” he said. "How
do we help people achieve their goals? We want people to
fulfill thelr dreams too.”

Looking Ahead

For Laurie Mitchell, the debate extends beyond any sin-
gle regulation or business or political worldview.

When they did the Jammin’ for Justice event, it became
clear. “It didn't matter whether they were republican or
democrat or independent. It didn't matter, And it didn’t
even pop up. What popped up was standing for the peo-
ple, standing for the land, standing for food, standing for
freedom.”

Whether the Land Use Code is necessary moderniza:
tion or unnecessary bureaucracy is up to residents to de-
cide

Next week: Part Three examines the larger question
behind the debate: What kind of future does Delta Coun-
ty want to build, and what role should agritourism play
init?



Part Ill — What Future is Delta County Building,
and What Role Should Agritourism Play?

By AMANDA KETTENRING Staff Writer

If you've spent an afternoon at a lo-
cal winery, attended a concert on a farm,
picked peaches from a you-pick orchard,
‘or stayed overnight on 2 working ranch,
you've experienced agritourism

Some say these experiences capture
the heart of Delta County's identity-Others
say agritourism is just one piece of a varied
economy and culture, Right how, behind»
bates over zoning, fand use codes, and
enforcement lies a deeper question: What
place should /agritourism: have| in Delta
County's future?

Why Supporters Say Agritourism Matters

Local agritourism business operators
say agritourism makes agriculture. sus-
tainable. Tim Austin of Fort Austin argues
that as farming has become less profitable
and family farms face increasing ecanom-
ic pressure, agritourism provides a way to
generate additional income while preserv-
ing agricultural traditions,

Besides making agriculture more sus-
taibable, these business owners also point
to the revenue that agritourism brings to
Delta County, Visitors who stay at local
farms, taste wine, dine at restaurants, and
shop in town generate lodging, sales, and
liquor tax revenue while supporting other
local businesses.

Laurie Mitchellya board member of the
Colorado -Agritourism Association, says
Delta County ranks eighth among Colora-
do's 64 counties in the number of agritour-
ism businesses and third in’ aarltourism
revenues “Agritouriam: 1s huge, and with:
out it, we wouldn't be able to sustain our-
selves,’ she says,

Beyond economics, supporters say ag
ritourism, strengthens the county's identity
by connecting visitors with working farms
and preserving a,rurai way of life that might
otherwise disappear,

The Caunty's Perspective:

Growth Requires Regulation

County officials agree that agritourism
has.value in. Delta County. They say their
goal is to support growth, but growth re-
quires regulation,

Last week's article shared this: “Busi-
ness owners point to what they see as a
shift from the broad support for agritourism
outlined in the County's 2018 Master Plan
to the more detailed regulatory framework
established through the 2021 and 2024
Land Use Code (LUC)" Public Information
Officer Lindsay Mitchell says this doesn't
quite capture the reality.

She agrees that the Mastér Plan sup:
ports agriculture and agritourism, but she
also points out that it calls for more regu-
lation as well. The Land Use Codes grew
directly out of that call, she says. “The plan
says agritourism and value-added agricul-
tural products bring greater depth to the
agricultural industry, It also directs the
County to encourage agricultural lands to

‘ADelta Counly pumpkin patrnieAgrtourism actiitie

over aqneuity

Support agritourism, However, the séme
plan calls for a new regulatory system to
address conflicts among agricultural, res
dential, commercial, and industrial uses.”

As it regulates growth, the County says
it has to treat all businesses fairly: Commis-
sioner Wendell Koontz explains that if the
County is regulating the safety and well-be-
ing of guests at a hotel within its)jurisdic-
tion; it’s only fair that it equally regulates
the safety and well-being of guests at an
overnight lodging facility on a farm. “We
have to treat all these businesses with con:
sistency, and it’s not easy to do. Is it case.
by-case? Almost, but not quite.”

In.addition to fairness, the County has
@ public responsibility to provide for the
“health, satety, and. welfare” of its resi-
dents, according, to. County Administrator
Robbie LeValley.

But some agritourism business owners
question whether the additional regula-
tion is needed, “We care more about these
guests being healthy than the County
could ever. Really, Because that's our live
lihood, This is our reputation,” says Laurie
Mitchell

Beneath the disagreements over regu-
lation lies confusion over what the bound-
aries are between agriculture, agritourism,
and commercial endeavors.

What Is Agritourism and Where Does

It Fit?

Part of the problem is that it's so hard to
define agritourism. Even the County admits
this. Commissioner Koontz says, “Every
time we try to make a definition, it moves”

Robbie LeValley attributes the defini-
tion*problem to the way Agritourism has
evolved over the ‘years. She says agritour-

Such as

5u:pick farms, Wine

the co

by Amana:

ism started as farm stands at farms, then
evoived into overnight stays, and now there
are wedding venues and more.

Where toés agritourism fit? Where does
agriculturé end and commercial business
begin? Are these activities commercial op
eratlons thet happen to be on farms, or are
they agricultural businesses using tourism
to sustain farming?

Tim Austin thinks the answer is clear,
“Classify agritourism as an agricultural ac-
tivity, not a commercial activity.”

LeValley,disagrees, “Agritourism is com-
mercial. You are taking monetary campen-
sation and providing a service. It is com-
mercial,”

Lindsay, Mitchell thinks it's Important
to understand the distinction between
sification and zoning, saying the
commissioners and planning department
aren't. the ones deciding on tax classitica-
tions, “Property-tax classification is deter-
mined independently by the Delta County
Assossor under state aw.” she says, “and
is based on the property's actual use, not
simply its zoning designation.”

But agritourism operators rémain con-
cerned that if their operations are increas
ingly treated as commercial through local
policy, the agricultural Identity of their busi-
nesses could gradually erode,

What should Delta County look like in

ten years?

How the County and its residents an-
sweér these questions will influence what
Delta County taoks like In the future,

When asked the question, “What should
Delta County took like in ten years?” inter-
viewees Shared a similar vision. They all
described a county where agriculture re-

yaw. HighCountrySpotlight.com

mains strong, families can, build a future.
and the local economy continues to grow.

For Commissioner Koontz, that vision.is
about preserving the safety and vaiues of
previous generations. He described what
he hoped Delta County would {00k Jike in
ten years as “a place where people can still
raise their families in safe and economi-
cally vibrant communities. Have the same
traditional heritage, values, arid opportuni
ties that we have right now, and the gener-
ations before us (had),”

For, County Administrator Robbie LeVal-
ley, it's to continue to support a multi-fac-
eted economy, She said she hopes to see
it “build on what it's been, a diverse econ-
omy: agriculture, coal mining, recreation,
tourism, broadband, We just continue to
build on that diverse economy. We contin
ue to celebrate that it is all of the above, It's
‘fot an either-or”

For Tim Austin, it's about making Delta
County a place his kids can afford to come
back to. “Delta County's most valuable
export is our children, All @ of my kids are
college-educated, married, and own their
homes, But they can't tind sufficient oppor-
tunity in Delta County;to!move back here
and live; Agritountsm could be one of many
sources of opportunity that might keep
some of our kids inthe County.”

Despite their disagreements over reg-
ulation and land. use, those interviewed
sharad a common belief that Delta County
is a special place to be, and its rural char-
acter is worth preserving. They all seem to
recognize the value of agritourism as. a way
to preserve this character, the question is
how much regulation isineeded alongithe
way.



Summary of Proposed Land Use Code Amendments

Chapter 1

e Section 6, C.3.a.: Clarify the Board of Adjustment's authority to grant variances for
roadway design and construction standards.

e Section 6.4: Align Board of Adjustment voting requirements with state statute by
adopting a majority vote standard for general variances while retaining statutory counts
for administrative reversals.

Chapter 2

e Table 2.b. & Section 4: Adopt comprehensive regulatory standards governing Battery
Energy Storage Systems (BESS) (also impacts Chapter 14).

e Table 2.b. & Section 4: Adopt specific zoning standards for natural medicine healing
centers, cultivation, manufacturing, and testing facilities (also impacts Chapter 14).

e Section 2.B.: Establish comprehensive standards, explicit permitting thresholds, and
clear exemptions for temporary special events.

e Section 4.A.11.: Revise intensive agriculture setback reduction regulations to eliminate
text ambiguities regarding how residential uses and property lines are defined and
measured.

e Section 4.C.3.: Revise overly restrictive residential setbacks for Rural Medium and Heavy
Industry to establish achievable minimum distances.

Chapter 3

e Section 1.A.: Amend variation to lot size clauses to correct conflicting language
regarding minimum acreages and to clarify how the rules apply to minor plat
subdivisions.

e Section B. 2. a.: Clarify that building setbacks from roadways must be measured
specifically from the edge of the right-of-way rather than the physical edge of the road.

Chapter 4

e Section 2, E.: Revise road paving mandates within Growth Management Areas to defer
to specific Intergovernmental Agreement terms rather than automatically requiring
paving.

e Section 2, F.1.: Align the code with the County GIS road naming standards.

Chapter 5

e Section 1, A.2.: Eliminate unnecessary traffic impact study requirements for minor plat
subdivisions to streamline the review process for low-impact developments.


e Section 3: Allow non-residential developments to use hauled water for cisterns under
specific criteria, without needing to obtain a hardship variance before the Board of
Adjustment.

Chapter 6

e Section 5.C.: Resolve an internal contradiction regarding private maintenance
agreements to clarify the County's non-enforcement policy.

Chapter 9

e Section 4: Remove the Board of Adjustment appeals process section from the code to
align with Colorado state statute, directing all subsequent appeals to the district court
instead of the Board of County Commissioners.

Chapter 11

® Section 1.A.2.a.;: Complete an unfinished sentence in the nonconformities section to
ensure clear protections for construction activities commenced prior to the effective
date of the code.

Chapter 12

e Section 3.B.3.: Harmonize flag lot standards with those in Chapter 3.

e Section 6.B.: increase the petition signature threshold for fina! plat vacations to one
hundred percent of subdivision lot owners to protect remaining owners’ established
property rights.

Chapter 14

e General: Adopt specific definitions for Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) (also
impacts Chapter 2, Table 2.b., and Section 4).

e General: Adopt specific definitions for natural medicine healing centers, cultivation,
manufacturing, and testing facilities (also impacts Chapter 2, Table 2.b., and Section 4).

e General: Eliminate an obsolete regulatory term from the subdivision and definitions
chapters that only referenced the deleted Board of Adjustment appeals section in
Chapter 12.

Code-Wide / Multiple Chapters

e Multiple Sections: Implement mandatory Site Plan Reviews for all “Allowed Uses" to
prevent landowners from independently proceeding with unlawful nonconforming
developments or omitting necessary permits.


Delta County Land Use Code Chapter 2

d. “—” means that the use is not allowed in the specified zoning district.

on

e. “n” If there is an “n” next to the L, then public notice of the application is required
before the action is taken.

3. Multiple Uses. In instances where a proposed development will combine more than one
listed use, each use shall be evaluated independently for compliance with applicable
standards.

4. Other Permits. Whether or not land use permits are required by this Code, other types of
permits or approvals may be required in order to establish the use (e.g., Right-of-Way use
permit, address, OWTS permits, and/or well permits, mobile home, electrical, plumbing
permits through the State).

B. Land Use by Zoning District

The land uses that are allowed in each zoning district are set out in Table 2.b, Land Use by
Zoning District. Section 4 of this Chapter includes Use Specific Standards for certain uses listed
below. Chapter 14, Section 2 provides Definitions of uses listed below.

TABLE 2.b
LAND USE BY ZONING DISTRICT
ZONING DISTRICT

AS | RI/C

LAND USE CATEGORY / LAND USE

AGRICULTURE LAND USE CATEGORY

Agriculture, Agribusiness, Silviculture, Viticulture A A A A A A
| INTENSIVE AGRICULTURE LAND USE CATEGORY‘

Small Animal Feeding Operation (SAFO) A A Ln La = =

Medium Animal Feeding Operation (MAFO) Ln La Ln Ln = —

Concentrated Aquatic Animal Production (CAAP) Ln Ln Lo La _ —

Large Animal Feeding Operations (LAFO) Ln La — La = —

RURAL RESIDENTIAL LAND USE CATEGORY

Single Family Detached A A A A A A
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) 1 A A A A A A
Additional Residences 2 L L L La Ln La
Manufactured Home Park (5+ units, including mobile C C (C Ln Ln Ln
homes and RVs) 12

Multifamily (4+ dwelling units) 1.2 La Ln La La Ln La
Residential Assisted Living (up to 8 people, non-related) A A A A A
Residential Treatment Facility (Congregate Care) Ln Ln C L €c
Nursing Home G c G G Cc G

Page 38


Delta County Land Use Code Chapter 2
ZONING DISTRICT

A35 | A20 AS | RI/C | A2.5 | RES
LAND USE CATEGORY / LAND USE 1
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT AND RURAL INDUSTRIES LAND USE CATEGORY
Farm Supply / Feed and Seed L L L A Ln Ln
Farmworker Housing 1 L L L L L
Kennel (within standards) 1 A A A A A A
Kennel (exceed standards) 1 L il, Ln La La La
Rural Light Industry L Ik Ib A Lo Lo
Rural Medium Industry (e.g., slaughterhouse, meat processing, Ln Ln C La Cc c
sawmill) !
Rural Heavy Industry (e.g., explosive, rock crushing, tannery)? c c c La a —
Veterinary Hospital or Clinic L L L L L L
COMMUNITY LAND USE CATEGORY !
Place of Assembly (up to 50 people) A A A A A A
Place of Assembly (51+ people) Ln La La La La La
Schools (up to 30 students) A A A A A A
Schools (31+ students) La Ln La Ln La Lo
Child Care Center (up to 13, non-related) A A A A A A
Child Care Center (13+, non-related) C G G A Cc Cc
Private Burials A A A A A A
Cemetery Cc Cc c Cc C Cc
COMMERCIAL LAND USE CATEGORY
Retail Sales and Services (includes banks, real estate, etc.) 4 L L L A L Ib
Office I L L A L L
Restaurant*+ L L L A La Ln
Automobile Fueling or Service Station c Cc C L c Cc
Storage Facility (Indoor/Outdoor) L L L L L L
Home Business 3 A A A A A A
Home Business, impact to neighboring property? La Ln Ln Ln La Ln
Sexually-Oriented Business! = = = (G = —
RURAL RECREATION AND HOSPITALITY CATEGORY
Up to 4 Rentable Rooms (e.g., Bed &Breakfast, A A A A A A
Short- Term/Vacation Rental, etc.)
5-10 Rentable Rooms (e.g., Guest Ranch, Lodging, etc.) L L L L L L

Page 39



Delta County Land Use Code Chapter 2
ZONING DISTRICT
A35 | A20 AS RI/C | AZ.5 | RES
LAND USE CaTEGORY / LAND USE 1
More than 10 Rentable Rooms (e.g., Resort, Conference Center C L La La La La
Hotel, etc.)
Equestrian Facilities (training, arenas, horse boarding, etc.) A A A A A A
Outdoor Shooting Range 1 L L G C _ _
Indoor Shooting Range 1 L L L L L L
Racetrack 1 G Cc C Cc — —
Paintball Course L L L L - _—
Hunting, Fishing, or Watersports Club A A Ln Ln Ln Ln
Special Events (meeting standards) 1 A A A A A A
Event Venue, Special Events (not meeting standards) 1 La La La Ln La La
Campground/RV Park 1 La Ln Cc Cc c _
Parks, Passive Recreation A A A A A A |
Golf Course Cc ie iq Cc iG c
Commercial Outdoor Recreation L L L L L L
Theater i, L L L L L ¥
Outdoor Theater 1 c G Cc Cc Cc Cc
UTILITIES, COMMUNICATIONS, MINING, ENERGY, TRANSPORTATION, AND DISPOSAL CATEGORY
Water or Wastewater Treatment Plant G © (65 Cc G C
Renewable Energy Facility (Personal Scale) 1 A A A A A A
Renewable Energy Facility (Commercial Scale) 1 Cc Cc c Ln — _ |
Truck Stop / Truck Wash Cc Cc c La c c |
Airport, Airstrip, Landing Pad (Other) 1 Ln Ln La Ln Lo La
Salvage Yard 1 Cc (g Cc Cc c
Minerals Extraction / Quarry 1 (G G G G G G |
Oil and Gas Extraction & Support Services Reserved (See Colorado Energy and Carbon
Management Commission}
Waste Transfer Station 1 —_ - _ Cc _— _
Landfill 1 c c c = = = |
Hazardous Waste Landfill 1 c — _ _ - —_—
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES!
New Facilities, Private Property C G c c Cc Cc
New Facilities, Public Property Ln La La La La La
Eligible Existing Facilities Ln La La La Ln La |
—<

Page 40


Delta County Land Use Code Chapter 2

ZONING DISTRICT
A35 | A20 AS | RI/C | A2.5 | RES
LAND UsE CATEGORY / LAND USE 1
Building Mounted Facilities Ln Ln Ln La La Ln
Small Wireless Facilities La Ln Ln La Ln Lo

-See Chapter 2, Section 4; Use Specific Standards

+See Chapter 2, Section 4(B)(6); Additional Residences

»See Chapter 2, Section 3(F); Home Business

+-See Chapter 7, Section 4(D); Type of Public Notice Required by Application Type

C. Uses Regulated by Ordinance in Any Zoning District

The following uses are specified in their operating ordinance(s) [See Appendix]:

a. Commercial Uses Cannabis; and

b. Pre-HUD Mobile Homes.

D. Uses that are Not Listed

1. Generally. If a proposed use (including but not limited to any specific type of
commercial use) is not listed in Table 2.b, Land Use by Zoning District, or in
Chapter 2, Section 2.C, Uses Regulated by Ordinance in Any Zoning District, then
the proposed use shall be evaluated pursuant to this Section.

2. Administrative Determination of Proposed Use.

a. The Director shall review the description of the proposed use and decide
whether the proposed use is:

1)

2)

3)

4)

A principal land use, which is a use of land on an ongoing basis for
a particular purpose, or a use that occupies permanent buildings
or facilities on the land (e.g., a farm, a shop, a dwelling unit, ora
new neighborhood);

A seasonal land use, which is a use of land (with or without
temporary buildings or structures) for a continuous period of six
months (180 days) or less during any twelve (12) month period
(e.g., a farm stand that is not located on a farm);

A temporary land use, which is the temporary use of land and
temporary buildings or structures, at the conclusion of which the
temporary buildings or structures are removed, for a purpose which
is related to construction, sales, or special events (e.g., a large
festival or carnival that is held outside of an amusement park or
fairgrounds);

An accessory use, which is a use of land that is associated with, but
clearly subordinate to, a principal use (e.g., a farm stand that is
located on a farm, an accessory dwelling unit, or a business use of
the home);

Page 41

(Back to Top)



                                       Board of Trustees
                                        Special Meeting
                                      Record of Proceedings
                                 Thursday, August 6, 2026, 6 p.m.

1. Call to Order & Pledge of Allegiance: Mayor Hart called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance at 6:00pm.

2. Roll Call: Mayor Hart, Trustees Steve Anderson, Cordell Chapman, Justin Hoffbauer, Mick Murray,
and Mary Steiner were in attendance. Mayor Pro Tem Jim Atkinson appeared via Zoom.

Let it be shown for the record that Interim Town Administrator (ITA) Carl Holm, Deputy Town
Administrator (DA) Jared Burson, Finance Director (FD) Tammera Francis, Chief of Police Dan Sanders,
Town Attorney Bo Nerlin via Zoom, Deputy Town Clerk (DC) Amy Alfaro, and Town Clerk (TC) Brooke
Wood were also in attendance.

3. Agenda Approval
Motion: Trustee Hoffbauer moved to approve the agenda as presented. Trustee Anderson seconded the
motion.
Vote: All voted “aye,” no one voted “nay,” motion passed unanimously.

                                        WORK SESSION ITEMS

4. 2026 General Election
ITA Holm gave a PowerPoint presentation.

This agenda item relates to a work session and minutes were not taken.

5. Housing Needs Assessment
Mike Scholl, representative from Ayres Associates attended via Zoom and provided a PowerPoint
presentation regarding their initial draft of the assessment.

This agenda item relates to a work session and minutes were not taken.
Mayor Hart called a recess to the meeting at 7:20pm and reconvened the meeting at 7:30pm.
                                    REGULAR MEETING ITEMS
6. Public Comment Period
    • Tom Kay: Stated he was part of the Delta County Planning Commission when the land use code
        was implemented in the county. He stated that he wanted to make the Trustees aware of the
        possible amendment to the land use code. The discussion is centered around removing restrictions
        on commercial buildings in residential areas.

                   BOARD OF TRUSTEES REGULAR MEETING 08/06/2026 (1)


7. Consent Agenda
Motion: Mayor Hart moved to pull items d-g from the Consent Agenda to discuss them separately, which
consisted of the following:
Renewing a Sidewalk Service Lease Agreement for DRM Holdings, LTD dba Sips on Main
Renewing a Sidewalk Service Lease Agreement for Booz Brothers LLC dba The Pondy
Accepting a Sidewalk Service Lease Agreement for Cathy Trimmer dba Cat’s on Main
Accepting a Sidewalk Service Lease Agreement with Grand Mesa Arts Center, Inc dba Grand Mesa Arts
and Events Center for a poetry stand. Trustee Hoffbauer seconded the motion.

There was no opposition to the approval of the remainder of the Consent Agenda which consisted of the
following:
Minutes: July 2, 2026, Regular Meeting
Minutes: July 23, 2026, Regular Meeting
Minutes: July 23, 2026, Executive Session
Treasurer’s Report; June 2026 Combined.

8. Sidewalk Service Lease Agreement
The Board directed Staff to bring the lease agreements back to the meeting on August 20th with
amendments regarding ADA compliance, requirement of a site plan, and correct square footage.

9. Recreation Advisory Board
Motion: Trustee Anderson moved to appoint all eight applicants to the Recreation Advisory Board with a
random drawing at the first meeting for the Recreation Advisory Board to set the terms for each applicant
three appointed to a one-year term, three appointed to a two-year term, and two appointed to a three-year
term, as well as reopen letters of interest to solicit additional members for the Recreation Advisory Board.
Vote: All voted “aye,” no one voted “nay,” motion passed unanimously.

10. Supplemental Budget Appropriation; Marketing (Applefest)
Motion: Trustee Hoffbauer moved to adopt Resolution 24-2026: Approving a Supplemental
Appropriation to General Fund Account 10-416-700 amounting to $7,000 to Provide Funding for
Marketing Services and Promotional Activities Associated with the 2026 Applefest with an amendment to
the Resolution removing section 2 referencing the removal of the Party in the Park funding.
Vote: Trustee Chapman, Trustee Hoffbauer, Trustee Murray, Trustee Steiner, Mayor Pro Tem Atkinson,
and Mayor Hart voted “aye,” Trustee Anderson voted “nay,” motion passed by a six to one majority.

11. Town Administrator’s Report
ITA Holm gave a verbal update regarding the Ginter’s Grove Public Improvement District meeting that
was held on August 4, 2026.

12. Liaison Reports
    • Mayor Pro Tem Atkinson gave a verbal update about the Colorado River Compact.
    • Trustee Anderson gave a verbal update about mosquitos testing positive for West Nile virus in
       Hotchkiss and Delta but is still waiting on CDPHE for more information.


                    BOARD OF TRUSTEES REGULAR MEETING 08/06/2026 (2)


   •   Trustee Chapman gave a verbal update on the Highway 65 Traffic committee and the potential for
       envisioning the three-mile corridor of Highway 65 within Town limits.
   •   Trustee Hoffbauer gave a verbal update regarding the Town Administrator recruitment progress.

13. Trustee Comments

   •   Trustee Hoffbauer stated he would like to have an agenda item on a future meeting to amend
       town code to prohibit data centers. Trustee Steiner seconded the request.
   •   Trustee Anderson requested to be involved in the agenda planning process as a board. Trustee
       Chapman seconded the request.
   •   Mayor Hart requested to add an agenda item to have a work session on Delta County Land Use
       codes and how it affects Cedaredge and whether the Town should be involved in discussions with
       the county. Trustee Murray seconded the request.
   •   Trustee Hoffbauer requested a moratorium placed on data centers while the Planning and Zoning
       Commission adjusts the land use code to completely prohibit data centers. Trustee Murray
       seconded the request.
   •   Trustee Chapman stated on May 28th he requested details of the status and conditions of crack
       filling on roads, status on water and wastewater infrastructure, status on meters on the Grand
       Mesa.

14. Adjournment
Mayor Hart adjourned the meeting at 8:55pm.




                  BOARD OF TRUSTEES REGULAR MEETING 08/06/2026 (3)


Points of Interest 07/31/2026 Financial Statements
Prepared by Tammy Francis, Finance Director
July 31st represents 58.33% of the budget year. Overall, 44.8% of budgeted revenues have been collected.
However, we are managing expenditures that are 40.1% of budget. The following narratives explain the
performance within each fund.

Balances in our cash accounts as of July 31st are as follows:
    • Cash in Bank of Colorado general checking; $198,210.95
    • C-Safe Investment Pool; $839.04
    • ColoTrust General Investment Pool; $3,756,160.52
    • Xpress Bill Pay; $50,310.43
    • Path Point; $16,071.93
    • Major Street Improvement reserved checking; $30,543.35
    • ColoTrust Major Street Improvement Reserve Investment Pool; $915,048.51

GENERAL FUND:
REVENUE
General Fund revenue for July 2026 is $215,840 and 2026 YTD $1,358,157 or 57% of the annual budget.
General Fund revenues exceeded expenditure by $25,327 for the month of July.

The following General Fund revenue sources are behind budget YTD budget projections:
- Sales & Use Tax; $14,324 or (2.77%);
- Delta County Sales Tax (Cedaredge portion); $3,724 or (1.26%);
- Specific Ownership Tax on vehicles; $2,178 or (7.83%);
- Interest Income; $27,998 or (18.52%);
- Marijuana 5% Special Sales Tax; $13,637 or (22.73%);
- State of Colorado Marijuana Sales Tax; $2,913 or (24.05%);
- Building Permit/Inspection; $26,663 or (41.66%) [NOTE: there have been no new building permits for
    single family dwellings while we budgeted for seven].
Staff will continue to monitor these accounts.

To help offset these low performing funds, the following General Fund revenue sources are above YTD
budget projections:
- Property Tax; $180,497 or 95.58% of the annual budget. Property tax is generally paid to the County
   Treasurer by citizens in February, April and June we receive the funds from the County the following
   month;
- Liquor and Marijuana License Fees; $2,209 or 320.87%;
- Business Licensing; $5,945 or 198.17%. We conservatively budgeted $3,000 since the program was just
   reinstated for 2026.

EXPENDITURES
General Fund expenditure for July 2026 is $251,200 with 2026 YTD $1,486,318 or 58.7% of the budget. We
are paying close attention to this fund’s expenditure due to the tight 2026 General Fund budget. The
following departments exceed 58.33% of the budget year as follows:

-   Administration; over budget by $49,341 or 64.92% annual budget;
      Full Financial Statements & Disbursements can be located on our website
      www.cedaredgecolorado.com/DocumentCenter and select the Financial Transparency folder

       Page |1


-   Elections; over budget by $1,065 or 70.86% of annual budget;
-   Building Inspection; over budget by $925 or 61.4% of annual budget;
-   Municipal Court; over budget by $155 or 59.22% of annual budget;
-   Facilities & Buildings; over budget by $226 or 59.37% of annual budget;
-   Opens Space, Parks & Recreation; over budget by $57,304 or 67.78% of annual budget;
-   Community Development; over budget by $1,524 or 59.68% of annual budget.

As noted above Administration department has several categories that are over budget as follows:
- Salaries; over budget by $8,243 or 60.85% annual budget;
- Recruitment/Recognition; over budget by $1,472 or 352.83% annual budget;
- Repair & Maintenance; over budget by $1,071 or 236.75% annual budget;
- Renewal/application/membership; over budget by $1,527 or 132.45% annual budget;
- Internet; over budget by $1,087 or 158.17% of annual budget;
- Contract services; over budget by $41,900 or 75.56% of annual budget. Contract Services expenditure
    has many of our contracts for the Town, some are paid annually and some are monthly.

The table below is all contract services by amounts and where we are as of July 31, 2026. The blue
highlighted items on the table are paid in full for the year. The ClearGov budget software increased for 2026
by $9,400 we were unaware of prior to budget adoption. Blair & Associates, our auditors, we budgeted for a
single audit that was not required for 2025 giving us savings of $3,500. Devor & Plumhoff have billed legal
fees through June 30, 2026. We have not budgeted $10,000 for the election attorney Butler Snow, which is
not reflected in the table. ERGOS, our IT contractor, is coming in less than anticipated and we were informed
of increased licensing pricing from Microsoft that is passed on to us effective July 2026 which is calculated to
$61.20 per month and we should be fine with increases. Xpress Bill Pay (XBP) we removed $7,650 from the
budget for our payment processing this should have stayed in as it is not a payment credit card or bank
charge fee, but a processing fee for us using XBP.

                                                                             BILLED   BUDGET    6/30/2026
                                                                                                   YTD
DESCRIPTION OF LINE ITEMS                                                      %      AMOUNT                REMAINING
                                                                                                 ACTUAL
Caselle Maintenance (Accounting Software maintenance)                        100%     $24,060     $25,438     ($1,378)
Blair & Associates (2025 Audit)                                              100%     $23,000     $19,500       $3,500
Devor & Plumhoff (Town Attorney)                                             50%      $48,000     $26,313     $21,687
Payroll Department (Timecard system)                                         58%       $1,125        $568         $557
ERGOS (Information Technology Services) removed $9,000 from budget           58%      $91,000     $50,279     $40,721
Capital Business Systems (Copier lease)                                      58%       $6,500      $4,088       $2,412
ClearGov (Budget Software)                                                   100%     $17,500     $26,900     ($9,400)
Revive & Shine Services (Janitorial Services)                                100%          $0        $100       ($100)
MuniCode (Codification of TOC code)                                           0%       $1,545          $0       $1,545
Civic Plus (Website)                                                         75%      $11,330      $8,661       $2,669
Xpress Bill Pay (Electronic Payment Processing) removed $7,650 from budget   58%       $1,620      $6,895     ($5,275)
Grant Writer                                                                 58%       $4,250      $1,236       $3,014
Employers Council (HR Support)                                               100%      $8,500      $8,350         $150
Personnel Attorney                                                           100%          $0        $500       ($500)
Chase/AMEX credit Card fees                                                  100%          $0        $149       ($149)
DocAccess - Website ADA Compliance                                           100%      $4,800      $4,800           $0
        Full Financial Statements & Disbursements can be located on our website
        www.cedaredgecolorado.com/DocumentCenter and select the Financial Transparency folder

        Page |2


TOTAL                                                                           $243,230    $183,777       $59,453

WATER FUND:
REVENUE & EXPENDITURES
Water Fund revenue for July is $146,420 and YTD is $760,328 or 50.7% of the annual budget. Water Fund
expenditure for July is $77,661 and 2026 YTD is $728,087 or 40.3% of the annual budget. Water Fund
revenue exceeded expenditure by $68,759 for the month of July.

The Water Fund revenue for user fees is $576,343 YTD and is 61.58% of the annual budget. The Water Fund
has not collected any of the anticipated seven (7) new builds tap fees. We also budgeted $200,000 for grant
revenue relating to the 300,000-gallon storage tank at the Water Treatment Plant. This project will likely not
occur this budget year.

The Water Fund expenditures have several categories that are over budget at 58.33% of the year as follows:
- Repair and maintenance; over budget by $23,959 or 111.01% of annual budget;
- Renewal application; over budget by $9,052 or 105.97% of annual budget;
- Education; over budget by $303 or 77.93% of annual budget;
- Insurance; over budget by $42,771 or 75.17% of annual budget (NOTE: This is due to quarterly invoices,
   and we have paid three of the quarters).

The largest expenditures below budget are as follows:
- Salaries; under budget by $23,310 YTD and is 51.59% of annual budget;
- Operating supplies; under budget by $6,940 YTD and is 18.48% of annual budget;
- Contract services; under budget by $42,908 YTD and is 19.38% of annual budget;
- Vehicle and equipment; under budget by $10,814 YTD and is 19.4% of annual budget.

WASTEWATER FUND:
REVENUE & EXPENDITURES
Wastewater Fund revenue for July is $78,938 and YTD is $559,600 or 58.8% of the annual budget.
Wastewater Fund expenditure for July is $65,690 and YTD is $499,433 or 53.3% of the annual budget. The
Wastewater Fund revenue exceeded expenditure by $13,248 for the month of July.

Wastewater Fund revenue is tracking above budget except for tap fees. As with the Water Fund, the
Wastewater Fund has not collected any of the anticipated seven (7) new builds tap fees, we have collected
one (1) out of town tap fee in the amount of $6,000.

Wastewater Fund expenditures are under budget at 58.33% of budget. Some categories are slightly over
while others are under budget. No concerns currently. The capital improvement account for the
Wastewater Fund is a security system for the Wastewater Treatment Plan for $27,000 has not been spent.
This is the only capital purchase for this fund.

GOLF COURSE FUND:
REVENUE & EXPENDITURES
The Golf Course Fund revenue for July is 97,500 and YTD is $54,375 or 74.52% of the annual budget.
expenditure is 32.7% of the annual budget. Golf Course Fund expenditure for July is $68,568 and YTD is


        Full Financial Statements & Disbursements can be located on our website
        www.cedaredgecolorado.com/DocumentCenter and select the Financial Transparency folder

        Page |3


$384,852 or 48.29% of the annual budget. Golf Course Fund revenue exceeded expenditure by $28,932 for
the month of July.
Golf Course Fund revenue is trending above budget for 2026 in all categories.

Golf Course Fund expenditures look great for all golf departments. Inventory purchases were budgeted for
$27,000 we have spent $34,782 or 128.82% of the budget. No capital expenditures have happened through
July 2026.

CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND (including Major Street Improvements):
REVENUE & EXPENDITURES
The Capital Improvement Fund revenue for July is $37,960 and YTD is $635,749 or 20.2% of the annual
budget. The Capital Improvement Fund expenditure for July is $30,988 and YTD is $630,483 or 18.71% of the
annual budget.

The revenue for the Capital Improvement Fund is based on Sales Tax, which is also below projected levels.
Capital Improvement sales tax revenue for July is $14,233 and YTD is $95,942 or 55.46% of the annual
budget. Major Street Improvement sales tax revenue is $18,977 and YTD is $127,922 or 55.38% of the annual
budget. Capital Improvement Fund revenue exceeded expenditure by $6,972 for the month of July.

Capital Improvement Fund has grant revenue budgeted for Capital Improvements for 2026 at $1,365,000 as
follows:
- Hunsicker Park, Tennis courts/pickleball courts construction $1,215,000;
- High Country Park, Parking lot construction $30,000;
- Town Park, Pavilion electrical upgrades $120,000

The Major Street Improvements within the Capital Improvement Fund, which are restricted to major street
improvements has grant revenue budgeted for Major Street Improvements as follows:
- Deer Trail Bridge, construction $844,303;
- Safe Routes to School (SRTS), sidewalk Main St to NW Cedar Ave construction $487,000

The Capital Improvement Fund expenditure has only spent Major Street Improvement funds totaling
$595,971 of the $1,745,307 or 34.15% of the annual budget for Deer trail Bridge Replacement Project and
$11,525 of the $59,063 or 19.51% of the budget on the Main Street bonds. The bond payments are semi-
annual in June and December.

CONSERVATION TRUST FUND (LOTTO):
REVENUE & EXPENDITURES
Revenue for the Conservation Trust Fund (CTF) for July is $265, and YTD is $23,312 or 79.38% of the annual
budget. There was no expenditure for the CTF in July, and the YTD is $15,290 or 68.69% of the annual
budget. CTF revenue exceeded expenditure by $265 for July.

CTF did not budget a revenue contribution from Delta County for the anticipated Tennis Court/Pickleball
courts site plan in the amount of $6,775.

CTF expenditures were allocated to purchase Golf Course chemicals in the amount of $15,000 and has been
expended. CTF has allocated to the Community Garden $2,258 for soil amendments in the budget and they
       Full Financial Statements & Disbursements can be located on our website
       www.cedaredgecolorado.com/DocumentCenter and select the Financial Transparency folder

       Page |4


have spent $290 leaving $1,968. CTF’s last budgeted item is $5,000 for Wayfinding signage relating to Parks
and Greenspace that has not been spent.

LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND (Back the Badge):
REVENUE & EXPENDITURES
Revenue for the Law Enforcement Fund (LEF) for July is $26,586 and YTD is $178,886 or 57.52% of the annual
budget. LEF expenditure for July is $23,949 and YTD is $176,244 or 56.67% of the annual budget. LEF
revenue exceeded expenditure by $2,636 for July. LEF has no concerns at this time.




       Full Financial Statements & Disbursements can be located on our website
       www.cedaredgecolorado.com/DocumentCenter and select the Financial Transparency folder

       Page |5


 Town of Cedaredge
  Jul-26


FUND SUMMARY
    Jul-26
7 Months or 58.33% of fiscal year has elapsed

                              Current Month                                                Year 2026
                         Actual           Budget                 Actual YTD       Budget YTD       Annual Budget     % of Budget
General Fund
 -Revenues          $      215,840       $      198,613      $      1,358,157     $   1,390,293    $    2,383,360          57.0%
 -Expenditures      $      190,513       $      211,104      $      1,486,318     $   1,477,725    $    2,533,243          58.7%
Net Rev - Expend    $       25,327       $      (12,490)     $       (128,161)    $     (87,432)   $     (149,883)

Water Fund
 -Revenues          $      146,420       $      124,880      $        760,328     $     874,157    $    1,498,555          50.7%
 -Expenditures      $       77,661       $      150,438      $        728,087     $   1,053,063    $    1,805,250          40.3%
Net Rev - Expend    $       68,759       $      (25,558)     $         32,241     $    (178,905)   $     (306,695)

Wastewater Fund
 -Revenues          $       78,938       $       79,296      $        559,600     $    555,071     $      951,550          58.8%
 -Expenditures      $       65,690       $       78,093      $        499,433     $    546,648     $      937,110          53.3%
Net Rev - Expend    $       13,248       $        1,203      $         60,167     $      8,423     $       14,440

Golf Course Fund
 -Revenues          $       97,500       $       60,542      $        541,375     $    423,793     $      726,502          74.5%
 -Expenditures      $       68,568       $       66,415      $        384,852     $    464,908     $      796,985          48.3%
Net Rev - Expend    $       28,932       $       (5,874)     $        156,524     $    (41,115)    $      (70,483)

Cap Imp and Maj St Imp
 -Revenues         $        37,960       $      262,277      $        635,749     $   1,835,941    $    3,147,328          20.2%
 -Expenditures     $        30,988       $      280,781      $        630,483     $   1,965,466    $    3,369,370          18.7%
Net Rev - Expend $           6,972       $      (18,504)     $          5,266     $    (129,525)   $     (222,042)

Trust Fund (lottery)
  -Revenues          $         265       $        2,448      $         23,312     $     17,133     $       29,370          79.4%
  -Expenditures      $           -       $        1,855      $         15,290     $     12,984     $       22,258          68.7%
Net Rev -Expend      $         265       $          593      $          8,022     $      4,149     $        7,112

Law Enforcement Fund
 -Revenues       $          26,586       $       25,917      $        178,886     $    181,417     $      311,000          57.5%
 -Expenditures   $          23,949       $       25,917      $        176,244     $    181,417     $      311,000          56.7%
Net Rev -Expend  $           2,636       $            -      $          2,642     $          -     $            -

TOTAL - ALL FUNDS
 -Revenues       $         603,508       $      753,972      $     4,057,409      $ 5,277,805      $   9,047,665          44.8%
 -Expenditures $           457,369       $      814,601      $     3,920,707      $ 5,702,209      $   9,775,216          40.1%
Net Rev - Expend $        146,139        $      (60,629)     $       136,701      $ (424,405)      $    (727,551)




                                                       Cash Alloc Chart-Monthly


 Town of Cedaredge
           Jul-26



Cash Allocation (current month)
                                                                            Cap. Imp.+ MSIF                                     Law
     General               Water          Wastewater            Golf           Res/Res               Trust (lottery)        Enforcement            Total
    $901,297            $1,441,437        $398,557           $421,028           $1,558,312             $88,917               $157,638           $4,967,185

Cash Allocation (last month)
   $1,015,257           $1,383,593        $384,376           $399,053           $1,618,955             $88,651               $155,002           $5,044,888

Change from last month
  ($113,960.80)        $57,843.92         $14,180.73         $21,975.46         ($60,643.79)            $265.23              $2,636.45          ($77,702.80)




                                    Cash Allocation (by Fund)
                                            July 2026
                                                                                       Law
                                          Trust (lottery)                          Enforcement
                                               2%                                      3%                              General
                                                                                                                        18%
 Cap. Imp.+
MSIF Res/Res
    31%




                               Golf                                                                                         Water
                               9%                                                                                           29%
                                  Wastewater
                                     8%

                                                                            Cap. Imp.+ MSIF                                     Law
     General           Water        Wastewater                  Golf           Res/Res               Trust (lottery)        Enforcement            Total
Available Resources January 1, 2026
 $     1,090,300 $      1,803,616 $      408,101         $        255,280   $       1,582,977    $            80,894    $        177,586    $      5,415,616

2026 YTD Actual Revenue less Expenditures
 $     (128,161) $        32,241 $              60,167   $        156,524   $            5,266   $             8,022    $           2,642   $        136,701

Available Resources 2026 YTD
$       962,139 $      1,835,857      $        468,268   $        411,804   $       1,588,243    $            88,917    $        180,228    $      5,552,317




                                                                   Cash Alloc Chart-Monthly


                                                 TOWN OF CEDAREDGE
                                                   CASH BALANCES




                                      Interest                    Monthly        Year to Date                        Percentage
             Institution                Rate       Period         Interest         Interest          Amount          of total cash
Colotrust General Investment Pool      3.77%      7/31/2026   $     11,993.21   $    84,062.57   $    3,756,160.52            75.62%
C Safe                                 3.77%      7/31/2026   $          2.68   $        17.97   $          839.04             0.02%
General Checking Bank of Colorado                 7/31/2026                                      $      198,210.95             3.99%
Xpress Deposit Account                            7/31/2026                                      $       50,310.43             1.01%
Path Point Deposit Account                        7/31/2026                                      $       16,071.93             0.32%

Total Combined Cash Accounts                                  $    11,995.89    $   84,080.54    $    4,021,592.87          80.96%


Colotrust MSIF Investment Pool         3.77%      7/31/2026   $      2,921.69   $   13,894.78    $      915,048.51          18.42%
MSIF Reserve/Restricted Checking Account Cash     7/31/2026                                      $       30,543.35           0.61%

Major Street Improvement Fund Reserved/Restricted Cash        $      2,921.69   $   13,894.78    $      945,591.86          19.04%


TOTAL MSIF Cash                                                                                  $      945,591.86          19.04%




GRAND TOTAL ALL CASH                              7/31/2026   $    14,917.58    $   97,975.32    $    4,967,184.73         100.00%


                 July 2026 YTD Sales & Use Tax Report
The Town of Cedaredge has a sales tax rate of 2%. Of the 2%, 1.125% is allocated to the general fund,
0.375% is allocated to the capital improvement fund and 0.5% is bond restricted for Main Street debt
payments in the major street improvement restricted account. Cedaredge also has a special 5% Marijuana
Sales Tax allocated to the general fund. Delta County shares part of the county sales tax and Delta County
shares part of the .8% Law Enforcement sales tax with each municipality; this revenue is allocated to the
general fund and the Law Enforcement Fund. Total tax collection comes from six main sources 1) General
sales including retail and dining. 2) Motor vehicle sales - all vehicles purchased anywhere but registered in
Cedaredge. 3) Use tax on construction materials paid at the time of building permit. 4) Share of the County
sales tax. 5) Share of the County Law Enforcement sales tax. 6) Special 5% Marijuana sales tax. The
following report outlines year to date allocation and compares tax revenues year to date with the previous two
years. The monthly budget is what is expected based on the annual budget and the monthy average total
sales and use tax revenue during the prior three years.
Tax Type                                    Source                                2026 YTD vs. 2025 Variance
General Sales                               Retail, food, etc.                                          -0.4%
Motor Vehicle Sales                         Any purchase registered in Cedaredge                        20.3%
Use Tax                                     Construction materials                                     -77.3%
Share of County Sales Tax                   All sales subject to county sales tax                        0.9%
Law Enforcement Sales Tax                   Town's share Cnty sales tax .8% LE                           0.8%
Marijuana Sales Tax                         Special 5% marijuana sales tax                               1.0%
Share of State Marijuana Sales Tax          Marijuana sales tax                                        -65.7%
Total                                                                                                   -1.2%



        TOTAL BY ALLOCATION YTD                                               TOTAL YTD
                                                        $1,000,000
                                                                            $898,246 $892,338 $881,931
       Law Enforcement
             Fund
                                                         $800,000
           $175,796
             20%
                                                         $600,000
   Major Street              General Fund
  Improvement                  $482,272                  $400,000
    $127,922                     55%
      14%                                                $200,000
             Capital
          Improvement                                           $-
             $95,942
               11%                                                            2024      2025    2026

                               Total Monthly Collection vs. Budget
Month                            Actual              Budget              Variance ($)           Variance (%)
January              $         113,273    $         127,450          $       (14,178)                 -11.1%
February             $         149,240    $         138,240          $        11,000                    8.0%
March                $         106,572    $         119,143          $       (12,571)                 -10.6%
April                $         122,417    $         118,206          $         4,211                    3.6%
May                  $         133,065    $         129,820          $         3,245                    2.5%
June                 $         125,301    $         130,460          $        (5,159)                  -4.0%
July                 $         132,064    $         134,160          $        (2,096)                  -1.6%
August               $                -                              $             -                    0.0%
September            $                -                              $             -                    0.0%
October              $                -                              $             -                    0.0%
November             $                -                              $             -                    0.0%
December             $                -                              $             -                    0.0%
Total                $         881,931    $         897,479          $       (15,547)                  -1.7%


                  July 2026 YTD Sales & Use Tax Report
              Cedaredge Sales Tax                                                      Cedaredege Use Tax
                                                                       $25,000                      $23,091
$500,000
                            $426,348 $424,849
                 $406,449
$400,000                                                               $20,000

$300,000                                                               $15,000
                                                                                         $9,018
$200,000                                                               $10,000
                                                                                                              $5,214
$100,000                                                                $5,000

      $-                                                                    $-
                   2024       2025       2026                                             2024       2025      2026



            Cedaredge MV Sales Tax                                                  Share of County Sales Tax
$100,000                                                               $200,000
                                                                                                              $168,932
                                        $81,626                                          $159,176 $167,419
 $80,000                                                               $160,000
                             $67,854
                  $57,331                                              $120,000
 $60,000

 $40,000                                                                $80,000

 $20,000                                                                $40,000

       $-                                                                      $-
                    2024       2025      2026                                               2024       2025     2026



           Share County Law Enforce Tax                                          Special 5% Marijuana Sales Tax
$200,000                                                               $100,000
                 $170,828 $174,365 $175,796                                               $81,826
$160,000                                                                $80,000

$120,000                                                                $60,000

 $80,000                                                                $40,000
                                                                                                    $21,147 $21,361
 $40,000                                                                $20,000

      $-                                                                       $-
                    2024       2025       2026                                              2024       2025      2026




                                           Share State Marijuana Sales Tax
                                      $20,000

                                      $15,000      $13,618
                                                             $12,115

                                      $10,000

                                                                        $4,153
                                       $5,000

                                           $-
                                                     2024     2025      2026


                                                                                                                  (Back to Top)


                                  LEASE AGREEMENT

        THIS LEASE AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 6th day of August 2026, by
and between DRM Holdings, LTD dba Sips on Main (“Owner”); and, Town of Cedaredge, a
Colorado home rule charter municipality (the “Town”). Hereinafter the Owner and the Town
shall individually be referred to as “Party” and collectively as “Parties.”

                                         RECITALS

A.    Owner operates a licensed Tavern facility located at 215 W Main Street, Unit A,
      Cedaredge, Colorado 81413 (the “Property”).

B.    Owner and Town desire to enter into a lease, allowing the Owner to non-exclusive use of
      a portion of the Town Sidewalk in support of the Owner’s licensed Tavern facility.

   NOW THEREFORE, FOR AND IN CONSIDERATION of the mutual covenants and
conditions set forth herein, PARTIES hereby agree as follows:

1.    Grant of Lease. Town agrees to lease to Owner a certain portion of Town right-of-way
      described as the sidewalk directly adjacent to the Property abutting the Owner’s front
      entrance (the “Town Sidewalk”). The exact location and footprint must be approved in
      writing by the Town Administrator or designee before installation and shall conform to
      the site plan approved by Town staff.

2.    Term. This lease shall be for one year, effective from August 6, 2026, until August 6,
      2027. Notwithstanding the foregoing, either party reserves the right to revoke this Lease
      by providing a three-day written notice of termination. The Town may require immediate
      suspension, relocation, or removal when necessary for an emergency, public safety, utility
      work, construction, maintenance, snow removal, or another public purpose.

3.    Consideration. Owner shall tender the Town $1.00 as an annual payment under this
      Lease.

4.    No Real Property Interest. Owner understands, acknowledges, and agrees that this
      Agreement does not create an interest or estate in Town Sidewalk in favor of Owner. The
      Town retains legal possession of the full boundaries of its right-of-way and this
      Agreement merely grants to Owner a lease for non-exclusive use of Town Sidewalk. The
      Town retains legal possession, control, and use of the full right-of-way. Any expenditure
      of money, time, labor, or materials by Owner is Owner's sole risk.

5.    No Vested Right. Notwithstanding any expenditure of money, time, or labor by the
      Owner on or within the Town Asset, this Agreement shall in no event be construed to
      create an assignment coupled with an interest or any bested legal rights in favor of
      Owner. Owner shall expend time, money, or labor on or in Town Asset at Owner’s own
      risk and peril.



                             Sidewalk Lease Agreement (Sips on Main)
                                           Page 1 of 3


6.    Limited Scope. The Lease granted to the Owner is limited in scope to the following use
      or uses: to access and use the Town Sidewalk. Owner shall not have the right to expand
      the use of the Town Sidewalk without the Town’s prior written consent. The Town
      Sidewalk may be used only for the Installation and reasonable access necessary to
      maintain it.

7.    Final Approval, Accessibility, and Installation. Before work begins, Owner shall
      submit a detailed site plan showing the building frontage, curb and sidewalk limits, exact
      Installation footprint and dimensions, distances to the curb, building, and nearby fixed
      objects, anchoring details, and the remaining unobstructed pedestrian route. The
      Installation shall be placed and maintained so the sidewalk remains accessible and shall
      not interfere with pedestrian access, sight distance, utilities, drainage, snow removal, or
      Town operations. Final placement and the site plan must be approved in writing by the
      Town Administrator or designee before installation. Owner shall obtain an approved
      excavation permit, complete required utility locates, and coordinate installation with
      Town staff. Town review does not transfer responsibility for design, construction, or
      compliance to the Town. Further, notwithstanding any Town review, the Owner is
      responsible for ensuring compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.

8.    Ownership, Maintenance, and Repair. The Installation remains the property and
      responsibility of Owner. Owner shall keep it structurally sound, clean, and in good repair
      and shall promptly correct any unsafe or deteriorated condition. Owner is responsible for
      all costs and for repairing damage to the sidewalk, curb, utilities, landscaping, or other
      Town property to Town standards.

9.    Removal and Restoration. Upon expiration or termination, or upon Town direction
      under Section 2, Owner shall promptly remove the Installation and restore the Town
      Sidewalk to a condition acceptable to the Town. If Owner fails to do so, the Town may
      complete the work and recover its reasonable costs from Owner.

10.   Assignment. The lease is not transferable or assignable.

11.   Insurance. During the term of this Agreement, Owner shall maintain and provide copies
      to the Town of the following insurance policies:
      • Workers compensation insurance
      • General and public liability insurance, naming the Town as a primary, non-
          contributory, additional insured in the amount of $2,000,000.000 in the aggregate and
          $1,000,000.000 total.

12.   Indemnification. Owner hereby agrees, to the fullest extent allowed by law, to indemnify
      and hold harmless the Town and its officers, agents, and employees from any and all
      claims, suits, damages, costs, expenses, liabilities, actions, or proceedings arising in any
      way from the negligence of Owner and its officers, agents, and employees in the
      execution and performance of this Agreement.



                             Sidewalk Lease Agreement (Sips on Main)
                                           Page 2 of 3


13.   Government Immunity. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the
      contrary, o term or condition of this Agreement shall be construed or interpreted as a
      waiver of any provision of the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act §C.R.S. 24-10-101
      et. Seq., as now or hereafter amended. The parties hereto understand and agree that
      liability for claims for injuries to persons or property and other injuries which lie in tort
      or could lie in tort that arise out of negligence of the Owner and/or their respective
      officers, agents, and employees is controlled and limited by the provisions of § C.R.S.
      24-10-101 et. Seq., as now or hereafter amended.

14.   Warranties of Authority. The parties expressly warrant and represent to each other that
      they have the full right, title, and authority to enter into this Agreement as provided
      herein, and that no approvals or consents of any other persons, entities, or agencies are
      necessary to affect the same.

15.   Counterparts and Facsimile Signatures. This Agreement may be executed in
      counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement, and any party
      may execute this Agreement by signing any such counterpart. Facsimile signatures on
      this document are acceptable and shall have the same force and binding effect as original
      signatures.

16.   Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of
      the parties hereto, their successors in interest, heirs, assigns, officers, employees, agents,
      directors, and shareholders.

17.   Costs of Litigation. In the event any litigation or other proceeding is brought for the
      interpretation or enforcement of this Agreement or because of an alleged dispute, default,
      misrepresentation or breach in connection with any of the provisions of this Agreement,
      the successful or prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees,
      costs and expenses actually incurred in initiating or responding to such proceeding in
      addition to any other relief to which such party may be entitled.

18.   Law and Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
      the laws of the State of Colorado. Venue is proper in Delta County District Court.

19.   Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding and agreement
      between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and cannot be amended,
      supplemented or changed, nor can any provision hereof be waived or terminated except
      by written instrument signed by the party against whom enforcement of any such
      amendment, supplement, modification, waiver or termination is sought.

20.   Invalid Provision. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid in any respect
      by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any other provision
      hereof, and the remaining provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and
      effect.




                              Sidewalk Lease Agreement (Sips on Main)
                                            Page 3 of 3


21.       Survival. The warranties and representations of the parties contained in this Agreement
          are deemed to survive the execution and effectiveness hereof.

22.       Review. This Agreement has been carefully read by the parties, the contents hereof are
          known and understood by the Parties, and it is signed freely by each Party executing this
          Agreement.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed, acknowledged, sealed, and
delivered this Lease Agreement on the date first above written.

Executed this ___ day of _____________, 2026.

Town of Cedaredge, a Colorado                           DRM Holdings
Home Rule Municipality                                  A Limited Company

Town Signature:                                         Owner Signature:


_____________________________                           ______________________________
Carl P. Holm                                            By:
Interim Town Administrator                              Owner

Approved on the ___ day of                              Approved on date: ______________
_________, 2026, by the Board of Trustees

Attest:


_____________________________
Brooke Wood, Town Clerk




                                 Sidewalk Lease Agreement (Sips on Main)
                                               Page 4 of 3




                                  LEASE AGREEMENT

THIS LEASE AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 6th day of August 2026, by and
between Booz Brothers, LLC dba The Pondy (“Owner”); and, Town of Cedaredge, a Colorado
home rule charter municipality (the “Town”). Hereinafter the Owner and the Town shall
individually be referred to as “Party” and collectively as “Parties.”

                                         RECITALS

A.    Owner operates a licensed Tavern facility located at 220, 230, and 240 West Main Street
      Cedaredge, Colorado 81413 (the “Property”).

B.    Owner and Town desire to enter into a lease, allowing the Owner to non-exclusive use of
      the Town Sidewalk in support of the Owner’s licensed Tavern facility.

   NOW THEREFORE, FOR AND IN CONSIDERATION of the mutual covenants and
conditions set forth herein, PARTIES hereby agree as follows:

1.    Grant of Lease. Town agrees to lease to Owner a certain portion of Town right-of-way
      described as the sidewalk directly adjacent to the Property abutting the Owner’s front
      entrance (the “Town Sidewalk”). The exact location and footprint must be approved in
      writing by the Town Administrator or designee before installation and shall conform to
      the site plan approved by Town staff.

2.    Term. This lease shall be for one year, effective from August 6, 2026, until August 6,
      2027. Notwithstanding the foregoing, either party reserves the right to revoke this Lease
      by providing a three-day written notice of termination. The Town may require immediate
      suspension, relocation, or removal when necessary for an emergency, public safety, utility
      work, construction, maintenance, snow removal, or another public purpose.

3.    Consideration. Owner shall tender the Town $1.00 as an annual payment under this
      Lease.

4.    No Real Property Interest. Owner understands, acknowledges, and agrees that this
      Agreement does not create an interest or estate in Town Sidewalk in favor of Owner. The
      Town retains legal possession of the full boundaries of its right-of-way and this
      Agreement merely grants to Owner a lease for non-exclusive use of Town Sidewalk. The
      Town retains legal possession, control, and use of the full right-of-way. Any expenditure
      of money, time, labor, or materials by Owner is Owner's sole risk.

5.    No Vested Right. Notwithstanding any expenditure of money, time, or labor by the
      Owner on or within the Town Asset, this Agreement shall in no event be construed to
      create an assignment coupled with an interest or any bested legal rights in favor of
      Owner. Owner shall expend time, money, or labor on or in Town Asset at Owner’s own
      risk and peril.



                              Sidewalk Lease Agreement (The Pondy)
                                           Page 1 of 3


6.    Limited Scope. The Lease granted to the Owner is limited in scope to the following use
      or uses: to access and use the Town Sidewalk. Owner shall not have the right to expand
      the use of the Town Sidewalk without the Town’s prior written consent. The Town
      Sidewalk may be used only for the Installation and reasonable access necessary to
      maintain it.

7.    Final Approval, Accessibility, and Installation. Before work begins, Owner shall
      submit a detailed site plan showing the building frontage, curb and sidewalk limits, exact
      Installation footprint and dimensions, distances to the curb, building, and nearby fixed
      objects, anchoring details, and the remaining unobstructed pedestrian route. The
      Installation shall be placed and maintained so the sidewalk remains accessible and shall
      not interfere with pedestrian access, sight distance, utilities, drainage, snow removal, or
      Town operations. Final placement and the site plan must be approved in writing by the
      Town Administrator or designee before installation. Owner shall obtain an approved
      excavation permit, complete required utility locates, and coordinate installation with
      Town staff. Town review does not transfer responsibility for design, construction, or
      compliance to the Town. Further, notwithstanding any Town review, the Owner is
      responsible for ensuring compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.

8.    Ownership, Maintenance, and Repair. The Installation remains the property and
      responsibility of Owner. Owner shall keep it structurally sound, clean, and in good repair
      and shall promptly correct any unsafe or deteriorated condition. Owner is responsible for
      all costs and for repairing damage to the sidewalk, curb, utilities, landscaping, or other
      Town property to Town standards.

9.    Removal and Restoration. Upon expiration or termination, or upon Town direction
      under Section 2, Owner shall promptly remove the Installation and restore the Town
      Sidewalk to a condition acceptable to the Town. If Owner fails to do so, the Town may
      complete the work and recover its reasonable costs from Owner.

10.   Assignment. The lease is not transferable or assignable.

11.   Insurance. During the term of this Agreement, Owner shall maintain and provide copies
      to the Town of the following insurance policies:
      • Workers compensation insurance
      • General and public liability insurance, naming the Town as a primary, non-
          contributory, additional insured in the amount of $2,000,000.000 in the aggregate and
          $1,000,000.000 total.

12.   Indemnification. Owner hereby agrees, to the fullest extent allowed by law, to indemnify
      and hold harmless the Town and its officers, agents, and employees from any and all
      claims, suits, damages, costs, expenses, liabilities, actions, or proceedings arising in any
      way from the negligence of Owner and its officers, agents, and employees in the
      execution and performance of this Agreement.



                              Sidewalk Lease Agreement (The Pondy)
                                           Page 2 of 3


13.   Government Immunity. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the
      contrary, o term or condition of this Agreement shall be construed or interpreted as a
      waiver of any provision of the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act §C.R.S. 24-10-101
      et. Seq., as now or hereafter amended. The parties hereto understand and agree that
      liability for claims for injuries to persons or property and other injuries which lie in tort
      or could lie in tort that arise out of negligence of the Owner and/or their respective
      officers, agents, and employees is controlled and limited by the provisions of § C.R.S.
      24-10-101 et. Seq., as now or hereafter amended.

14.   Warranties of Authority. The parties expressly warrant and represent to each other that
      they have the full right, title, and authority to enter into this Agreement as provided
      herein, and that no approvals or consents of any other persons, entities, or agencies are
      necessary to affect the same.

15.   Counterparts and Facsimile Signatures. This Agreement may be executed in
      counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement, and any party
      may execute this Agreement by signing any such counterpart. Facsimile signatures on
      this document are acceptable and shall have the same force and binding effect as original
      signatures.

16.   Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of
      the parties hereto, their successors in interest, heirs, assigns, officers, employees, agents,
      directors, and shareholders.

17.   Costs of Litigation. In the event any litigation or other proceeding is brought for the
      interpretation or enforcement of this Agreement or because of an alleged dispute, default,
      misrepresentation or breach in connection with any of the provisions of this Agreement,
      the successful or prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees,
      costs and expenses actually incurred in initiating or responding to such proceeding in
      addition to any other relief to which such party may be entitled.

18.   Law and Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
      the laws of the State of Colorado. Venue is proper in Delta County District Court.

19.   Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding and agreement
      between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and cannot be amended,
      supplemented or changed, nor can any provision hereof be waived or terminated except
      by written instrument signed by the party against whom enforcement of any such
      amendment, supplement, modification, waiver or termination is sought.

20.   Invalid Provision. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid in any respect
      by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any other provision
      hereof, and the remaining provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and
      effect.




                               Sidewalk Lease Agreement (The Pondy)
                                            Page 3 of 3


21.       Survival. The warranties and representations of the parties contained in this Agreement
          are deemed to survive the execution and effectiveness hereof.

22.       Review. This Agreement has been carefully read by the parties, the contents hereof are
          known and understood by the Parties, and it is signed freely by each Party executing this
          Agreement.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed, acknowledged, sealed, and
delivered this Lease Agreement on the date first above written.

Executed this ___ day of _____________, 2026.

Town of Cedaredge, a Colorado                          Booz Brothers
Home Rule Municipality                                 A Limited Liability Company

Town Signature:                                        Owner Signature:


_____________________________                          ______________________________
Carl P. Holm                                           By:
Interim Town Administrator                             Owner

Approved on the ___ day of                             Approved on date: ______________
_________, 2026, by the Board of Trustees

Attest:


_____________________________
Brooke Wood, Town Clerk




                                  Sidewalk Lease Agreement (The Pondy)
                                               Page 4 of 3


WIwM aais
SE

iu 9903 |



                                   LEASE AGREEMENT

        THIS LEASE AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 6th day of August 2026, by
and between Cathy Trimmer, dba Cat’s on Main, (“Owner”); and, Town of Cedaredge, a
Colorado home rule charter municipality (the “Town”). Hereinafter the Owner and the Town
shall individually be referred to as “Party” and collectively as “Parties.”

                                          RECITALS

A.    Owner operates a facility located at 260 West Main Street (the “Property”).

B.    Owner and Town desire to enter into a lease, allowing the Owner to non-exclusive use of
      the Town Sidewalk in support of the Owner’s licensed Tavern facility.

   NOW THEREFORE, FOR AND IN CONSIDERATION of the mutual covenants and
conditions set forth herein, PARTIES hereby agree as follows:

1.    Grant of Lease. Town agrees to lease to Owner a certain portion of Town right-of-way
      described as the sidewalk directly adjacent to the Property abutting the Owner’s front
      entrance (the “Town Sidewalk”). The exact location and footprint must be approved in
      writing by the Town Administrator or designee before installation and shall conform to
      the site plan approved by Town staff.

2.    Term. This lease shall be for one year, effective from August 6, 2026, until August 6,
      2027. Notwithstanding the foregoing, either party reserves the right to revoke this Lease
      by providing a three-day written notice of termination. The Town may require immediate
      suspension, relocation, or removal when necessary for an emergency, public safety, utility
      work, construction, maintenance, snow removal, or another public purpose.

3.    Consideration. Owner shall tender the Town $1.00 as an annual payment under this
      Lease.

4.    No Real Property Interest. Owner understands, acknowledges, and agrees that this
      Agreement does not create an interest or estate in Town Sidewalk in favor of Owner. The
      Town retains legal possession of the full boundaries of its right-of-way and this
      Agreement merely grants to Owner a lease for non-exclusive use of Town Sidewalk. The
      Town retains legal possession, control, and use of the full right-of-way. Any expenditure
      of money, time, labor, or materials by Owner is Owner's sole risk.

5.    No Vested Right. Notwithstanding any expenditure of money, time, or labor by the
      Owner on or within the Town Asset, this Agreement shall in no event be construed to
      create an assignment coupled with an interest or any bested legal rights in favor of
      Owner. Owner shall expend time, money, or labor on or in Town Asset at Owner’s own
      risk and peril.




                             Sidewalk Lease Agreement (Cat’s on Main)
                                            Page 1 of 3


6.    Limited Scope. The Lease granted to the Owner is limited in scope to the following use
      or uses: to access and use the Town Sidewalk. Owner shall not have the right to expand
      the use of the Town Sidewalk without the Town’s prior written consent. The Town
      Sidewalk may be used only for the Installation and reasonable access necessary to
      maintain it.

7.    Final Approval, Accessibility, and Installation. Before work begins, Owner shall
      submit a detailed site plan showing the building frontage, curb and sidewalk limits, exact
      Installation footprint and dimensions, distances to the curb, building, and nearby fixed
      objects, anchoring details, and the remaining unobstructed pedestrian route. The
      Installation shall be placed and maintained so the sidewalk remains accessible and shall
      not interfere with pedestrian access, sight distance, utilities, drainage, snow removal, or
      Town operations. Final placement and the site plan must be approved in writing by the
      Town Administrator or designee before installation. Owner shall obtain an approved
      excavation permit, complete required utility locates, and coordinate installation with
      Town staff. Town review does not transfer responsibility for design, construction, or
      compliance to the Town. Further, notwithstanding any Town review, the Owner is
      responsible for ensuring compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.

8.    Ownership, Maintenance, and Repair. The Installation remains the property and
      responsibility of Owner. Owner shall keep it structurally sound, clean, and in good repair
      and shall promptly correct any unsafe or deteriorated condition. Owner is responsible for
      all costs and for repairing damage to the sidewalk, curb, utilities, landscaping, or other
      Town property to Town standards.

9.    Removal and Restoration. Upon expiration or termination, or upon Town direction
      under Section 2, Owner shall promptly remove the Installation and restore the Town
      Sidewalk to a condition acceptable to the Town. If Owner fails to do so, the Town may
      complete the work and recover its reasonable costs from Owner.

10.   Assignment. The lease is not transferable or assignable.

11.   Insurance. During the term of this Agreement, Owner shall maintain and provide copies
      to the Town of the following insurance policies:
      • Workers compensation insurance
      • General and public liability insurance, naming the Town as a primary, non-
          contributory, additional insured in the amount of $2,000,000.000 in the aggregate and
          $1,000,000.000 total.

12.   Indemnification. Owner hereby agrees, to the fullest extent allowed by law, to indemnify
      and hold harmless the Town and its officers, agents, and employees from any and all
      claims, suits, damages, costs, expenses, liabilities, actions, or proceedings arising in any
      way from the negligence of Owner and its officers, agents, and employees in the
      execution and performance of this Agreement.



                             Sidewalk Lease Agreement (Cat’s on Main)
                                            Page 2 of 3


13.   Government Immunity. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the
      contrary, o term or condition of this Agreement shall be construed or interpreted as a
      waiver of any provision of the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act §C.R.S. 24-10-101
      et. Seq., as now or hereafter amended. The parties hereto understand and agree that
      liability for claims for injuries to persons or property and other injuries which lie in tort
      or could lie in tort that arise out of negligence of the Owner and/or their respective
      officers, agents, and employees is controlled and limited by the provisions of § C.R.S.
      24-10-101 et. Seq., as now or hereafter amended.

14.   Warranties of Authority. The parties expressly warrant and represent to each other that
      they have the full right, title, and authority to enter into this Agreement as provided
      herein, and that no approvals or consents of any other persons, entities, or agencies are
      necessary to affect the same.

15.   Counterparts and Facsimile Signatures. This Agreement may be executed in
      counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement, and any party
      may execute this Agreement by signing any such counterpart. Facsimile signatures on
      this document are acceptable and shall have the same force and binding effect as original
      signatures.

16.   Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of
      the parties hereto, their successors in interest, heirs, assigns, officers, employees, agents,
      directors, and shareholders.

17.   Costs of Litigation. In the event any litigation or other proceeding is brought for the
      interpretation or enforcement of this Agreement or because of an alleged dispute, default,
      misrepresentation or breach in connection with any of the provisions of this Agreement,
      the successful or prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees,
      costs and expenses actually incurred in initiating or responding to such proceeding in
      addition to any other relief to which such party may be entitled.

18.   Law and Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
      the laws of the State of Colorado. Venue is proper in Delta County District Court.

19.   Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding and agreement
      between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and cannot be amended,
      supplemented or changed, nor can any provision hereof be waived or terminated except
      by written instrument signed by the party against whom enforcement of any such
      amendment, supplement, modification, waiver or termination is sought.

20.   Invalid Provision. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid in any respect
      by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any other provision
      hereof, and the remaining provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and
      effect.




                              Sidewalk Lease Agreement (Cat’s on Main)
                                             Page 3 of 3


21.       Survival. The warranties and representations of the parties contained in this Agreement
          are deemed to survive the execution and effectiveness hereof.

22.       Review. This Agreement has been carefully read by the parties, the contents hereof are
          known and understood by the Parties, and it is signed freely by each Party executing this
          Agreement.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed, acknowledged, sealed, and
delivered this Lease Agreement on the date first above written.

Executed this ___ day of _____________, 2026.

Town of Cedaredge, a Colorado                            Cathy Trimmer
Home Rule Municipality                                   Owner

Town Signature:                                          Owner Signature:


_____________________________                            ______________________________
Carl P. Holm                                             By:
Interim Town Administrator                               Owner

Approved on the ___ day of                               Approved on date: ______________
_________, 2026, by the Board of Trustees

Attest:


_____________________________
Brooke Wood, Town Clerk




                                 Sidewalk Lease Agreement (Cat’s on Main)
                                                Page 4 of 3


Dinas

' ‘2 f
Drab. te butler D gia"
Bodth +. sdreek Mi
Geo KW lenath. Tom e,*! Cir> Fo Spee te Sot
, ) 5d: 5
Kost to Bort ldmg Cy
Bust lode, ral at? rv ~y
a NG Sra. dude ined ae
Ta De geopr side 2'g”

itt, thle vir ode 2° |”



                                     LEASE AGREEMENT

        THIS LEASE AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 6th day of August 2026, by
and between Grand Mesa Arts and Events Center, Inc. ("Owner"); and the Town of Cedaredge, a
Colorado home rule charter municipality (the "Town"). Hereinafter the Owner and the Town
shall individually be referred to as “Party” and collectively as “Parties.”

                                            RECITALS

A.     Owner operates an arts and events center located at 195 W. Main Street, Cedaredge,
       Colorado 81413 (the "Property").

B.     Owner has requested permission to install and maintain a custom metal poetry stand
       within the Town-owned sidewalk/right-of-way adjacent to the Property (the "Town
       Sidewalk").

C.     The poetry stand is intended to display poems and customary literary attribution as a
       literary public art installation and will be located only where approved by the Town.

D.     The Parties desire to enter into a lease allowing Owner limited, nonexclusive use of the
       Town Sidewalk for the approved installation.

       NOW THEREFORE, FOR AND IN CONSIDERATION of the mutual covenants and
conditions set forth herein, the Parties agree as follows:

1. Grant of Lease. The Town grants Owner permission to enter and use the Town Sidewalk
   solely to install, maintain, and operate the poetry stand described in the Owner request dated
   July 13, 2026 (the "Installation"). The exact location and footprint must be approved in
   writing by the Town Administrator or designee before installation and shall conform to the
   site plan approved by Town staff.

2. Term. This lease shall be for one year, effective from August 6, 2026, until August 6, 2027.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, either party reserves the right to revoke this Lease by
   providing a three-day written notice of termination. The Town may require immediate
   suspension, relocation, or removal when necessary for an emergency, public safety, utility
   work, construction, maintenance, snow removal, or another public purpose.

3. Consideration. Owner shall tender the Town $1.00 as an annual payment under this Lease.

4. No Real Property Interest. Owner understands, acknowledges, and agrees that this
   Agreement does not create an interest or estate in Town Sidewalk in favor of Owner. The
   Town retains legal possession of the full boundaries of its right-of-way and this Agreement
   merely grants to Owner a lease for non-exclusive use of Town Sidewalk. The Town retains
   legal possession, control, and use of the full right-of-way. Any expenditure of money, time,
   labor, or materials by Owner is Owner's sole risk.


                             Sidewalk Lease Agreement (GMAEC Poetry Stand)
                                              Page 1 of 4


5. No Vested Right. Notwithstanding any expenditure of money, time, or labor by the Owner
   on or within the Town Asset, this Agreement shall in no event be construed to create an
   assignment coupled with an interest or any bested legal rights in favor of Owner. Owner shall
   expend time, money, or labor on or in Town Asset at Owner’s own risk and peril.

6. Limited Scope. The Lease granted to the Owner is limited in scope to the following use or
   uses: to access and use the Town Sidewalk. Owner shall not have the right to expand the use
   of the Town Sidewalk without the Town’s prior written consent. The Town Sidewalk may be
   used only for the Installation and reasonable access necessary to maintain it. The display may
   contain only poems, poem titles, author names, and customary source or copyright
   information. It shall not include business identification, advertising, exhibit or event
   announcements, schedules, admission or ticket information, fundraising or sponsorship
   messages, directional information, websites, QR codes, political campaign material, or other
   promotional or functional notices. This limitation is material to the Town's determination that
   the Installation is literary public art rather than a sign. Unauthorized content shall be removed
   upon Town notice and may be grounds for termination.

7. Final Approval, Accessibility, and Installation. Before work begins, Owner shall submit a
   detailed site plan showing the building frontage, curb and sidewalk limits, exact Installation
   footprint and dimensions, distances to the curb, building, and nearby fixed objects, anchoring
   details, and the remaining unobstructed pedestrian route. The Installation shall be placed and
   maintained so the sidewalk remains accessible and shall not interfere with pedestrian access,
   sight distance, utilities, drainage, snow removal, or Town operations. Final placement and the
   site plan must be approved in writing by the Town Administrator or designee before
   installation. Owner shall obtain an approved excavation permit, complete required utility
   locates, and coordinate installation with Town staff. Town review does not transfer
   responsibility for design, construction, or compliance to the Town. Further, notwithstanding
   any Town review, the Owner is responsible for ensuring compliance with the Americans with
   Disabilities Act.

8. Ownership, Maintenance, and Repair. The Installation remains the property and
   responsibility of Owner. Owner shall keep it structurally sound, clean, and in good repair and
   shall promptly correct any unsafe or deteriorated condition. Owner is responsible for all costs
   and for repairing damage to the sidewalk, curb, utilities, landscaping, or other Town property
   to Town standards.

9. Removal and Restoration. Upon expiration or termination, or upon Town direction under
   Section 2, Owner shall promptly remove the Installation and restore the Town Sidewalk to a
   condition acceptable to the Town. If Owner fails to do so, the Town may complete the work
   and recover its reasonable costs from Owner.

10. Assignment. The lease is not transferable or assignable.

11. Insurance. During the term of this Agreement, Owner shall maintain and provide copies to
    the Town of the following insurance policies:
        • Workers compensation insurance

                             Sidewalk Lease Agreement (GMAEC Poetry Stand)
                                              Page 2 of 4


       •   General and public liability insurance, naming the Town as a primary, non-
           contributory, additional insured in the amount of $2,000,000.000 in the aggregate and
           $1,000,000.000 total.

12. Indemnification. Owner hereby agrees, to the fullest extent allowed by law, to indemnify
    and hold harmless the Town and its officers, agents, and employees from any and all claims,
    suits, damages, costs, expenses, liabilities, actions, or proceedings arising in any way from
    the negligence of Owner and its officers, agents, and employees in the execution and
    performance of this Agreement.

13. Government Immunity. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the
    contrary, o term or condition of this Agreement shall be construed or interpreted as a waiver
    of any provision of the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act §C.R.S. 24-10-101 et. Seq., as
    now or hereafter amended. The parties hereto understand and agree that liability for claims
    for injuries to persons or property and other injuries which lie in tort or could lie in tort that
    arise out of negligence of the Owner and/or their respective officers, agents, and employees
    is controlled and limited by the provisions of § C.R.S. 24-10-101 et. Seq., as now or hereafter
    amended.

14. Warranties of Authority. The parties expressly warrant and represent to each other that they
    have the full right, title, and authority to enter into this Agreement as provided herein, and
    that no approvals or consents of any other persons, entities, or agencies are necessary to
    affect the same.

15. Counterparts and Facsimile Signatures. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts,
    all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement, and any party may execute this
    Agreement by signing any such counterpart. Facsimile signatures on this document are
    acceptable and shall have the same force and binding effect as original signatures.

16. Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the
    parties hereto, their successors in interest, heirs, assigns, officers, employees, agents,
    directors, and shareholders.

17. Costs of Litigation. In the event any litigation or other proceeding is brought for the
    interpretation or enforcement of this Agreement or because of an alleged dispute, default,
    misrepresentation or breach in connection with any of the provisions of this Agreement, the
    successful or prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, costs and
    expenses actually incurred in initiating or responding to such proceeding in addition to any
    other relief to which such party may be entitled.

18. Law and Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
    laws of the State of Colorado. Venue is proper in Delta County District Court.

19. Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding and agreement
    between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and cannot be amended,
    supplemented or changed, nor can any provision hereof be waived or terminated except by

                              Sidewalk Lease Agreement (GMAEC Poetry Stand)
                                               Page 3 of 4


   written instrument signed by the party against whom enforcement of any such amendment,
   supplement, modification, waiver or termination is sought.

20. Invalid Provision. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid in any respect by
    a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any other provision hereof,
    and the remaining provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

21. Survival. The warranties and representations of the parties contained in this Agreement are
    deemed to survive the execution and effectiveness hereof.

22. Review. This Agreement has been carefully read by the parties, the contents hereof are
    known and understood by the Parties, and it is signed freely by each Party executing this
    Agreement.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed, acknowledged, sealed, and
delivered this Lease Agreement on the date first above written.

Executed this ___ day of _____________, 2026.

Town of Cedaredge, a Colorado                           GRAND MESA ARTS CENTER, INC
Home Rule Municipality                                  A 501(c)(3) Non-Profit Organization

Approved By (Authorized Contact):



_____________________________                           ______________________________
Carl P. Holm                                            By:
Interim Town Administrator                              Owner

Approved on the ___ day of                              Approved on date: ______________
_________, 2026, by the Board of Trustees


Attest:


_____________________________
Brooke Wood, Town Clerk




                              Sidewalk Lease Agreement (GMAEC Poetry Stand)
                                               Page 4 of 4


(Back to Top)


                                         MEMORANDUM

To:                 Mayor and Board of Trustees

From:               Brooke Wood, Town Clerk
                    Carl Holm, Interim Town Administrator

Agenda Date:        August 20, 2026

Item:               PUBLIC HEARING; Special Event Permits (GMAEC)

Attached:           Application for Special Events

RECOMMENDATION(S):
  a. Conduct a public hearing
        [NOTE: a hearing is only required if opposition is received by Monday, August 17,
        2026. If no opposition is received, this item will be removed from the agenda.]
  b. Consider issuance of Special Events Permits for Grand Mesa Arts and Events Center
     (GMAEC) at four (4) locations:
        1. 725 SE Pine St., Cedaredge, CO 81413;
        2. 515 SE Stonebridge Dr., Cedaredge, CO 81413;
        3. 235 SW 8th Ave., Cedaredge, CO 81413; and
        4. 1672 S. Grand Mesa Dr., Cedaredge, CO 81413

SUMMARY/DISCUSSION:
See attached application for applicable event information (Exhibit A).




Annual Board Training
8206/2026; Board of Trustees
Page 1 of 1
















































(Back to Top)


                                         MEMORANDUM

To:                 Mayor and Board of Trustees

From:               Brooke Wood, Town Clerk
                    Carl Holm, Interim Town Administrator

Agenda Date:        August 20, 2026

Item:               PUBLIC HEARING; Special Event Permit (Historical Society)

Attached:           Application for Special Event

RECOMMENDATION(S):
  a. Conduct a public hearing
        [NOTE: a hearing is only required if opposition is received by Monday, August 17,
        2026. If no opposition is received, this item will be removed from the agenda.]
  b. Consider issuance of Special Events Permits for Grand Mesa Arts and Events Center
     Approve issuance of a Special Events Permit for Surface Creek Valley Historical Society
     (Historical Society) at 388 S. Grand Mesa Dr., Cedaredge, CO 81413.

SUMMARY/DISCUSSION:
See attached application for applicable event information (Exhibit A).




Annual Board Training
8206/2026; Board of Trustees
Page 1 of 1
















(Back to Top)


                                         MEMORANDUM

To:                 Mayor and Board of Trustees

From:               Carl Holm, Interim Town Administrator

Agenda Date:        August 20, 2026

Item:               Data Center Moratorium

Attached:           A) Ordinance 2026-XX

RECOMMENDATION(S):
Consider Ordinance 2026-XX; Imposing a Temporary Moratorium on Data Center Facilities in all
Zoning Designations within the Town of Cedaredge.

SUMMARY/DISCUSSION:
This item was requested as Board referral under Trustee Comments on 8/6/2026. Due to the
nature of the topic, and lack of adequate standards for this type of use, this item was expedited as
an emergency ordinance.

For purposes of this moratorium, a “data center facility” means purpose-built structure(s)
designed and primarily used to house computer servers, data storage systems, large-scale digital
data processing, and/or networking equipment, and associated infrastructure, sometimes referred
to as Digital Infrastructure Facilities, Industrial-Scale Computing Facilities, or High-Intensity
Computing Facilities. It is not intended to include individual businesses that house services for
their personal use.




Data Center Moratorium
8206/2026; Board of Trustees
Page 1 of 1


                                     ORDINANCE 2026-XX

            AN EMERGENCY ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
                  OF THE TOWN OF CEDAREDGE, COLORADO

Imposing a Temporary Moratorium on Data Center Facilities in all Zoning Designations within
                                the Town of Cedaredge

       WHEREAS, the Town of Cedaredge, in Delta County, and the State of Colorado (the
“Town”), is a home rule municipal corporation duly organized and existing under laws of the State
of Colorado and the Town Charter (the “Charter”); and

         WHEREAS, the Local Government Land Use Control Enabling Act, C.R.S. § 29-20-101,
et seq. grants broad authority to counties and municipalities to plan for and regulate the use of land
within their boundaries to ensure orderly development and protect the environment and community
welfare; and

        WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees is the legislative and governing body of the Town and
shall have the powers as are possessed by the Town and not otherwise conferred by the Charter;
and

       WHEREAS, local governments and states nationwide are working to address the swift
expansion of medium and large data centers and similar computing infrastructure, which often
draw power requirements akin to those of small urban centers; and

       WHEREAS, the development of data center facilities is a rapidly developing and evolving
industry across Colorado; and

        WHEREAS, the Town does not currently have comprehensive and specific local zoning,
land use, and water management laws or regulations that adequately address the unique
characteristics and impacts of data center facilities, particularly medium-sized and hyperscale data
centers; and

       WHEREAS, data center facilities can have significant impacts on infrastructure, including
demands on electrical power, water supply, telecommunications networks, and transportation
systems, as well as potential impacts on surrounding land uses, natural resources, public services,
and the character of the community; and

        WHEREAS, the Colorado General Assembly may consider legislation regarding
statewide data center facilities regulations during the 2027 legislative session that may impact local
regulation, which impact will not be known until after the legislation is passed; and

        WHEREAS, the Board has determined that it is necessary to temporarily suspend
acceptance of applications for data center facilities while appropriate regulations, standards, and
definitions can be developed through a comprehensive public process involving the Planning and
Zoning Commission and the Board; and

        WHEREAS, in consideration of the impact data center facilities may have on Town
infrastructure and utilities, including the Town water supply and availably, the Board of Trustees
has determined that a true emergency exists, necessary for the preservation of public peace, health
and safety in accordance with Section 1-12 of the Town of Cedaredge Home Rule Charter; and

       WHEREAS, in accordance with the Town’s enumerated police powers, and pursuant to
Section 13-8 of the Town of Cedaredge Home Rule Charter, the Board of Trustees may adopt land
use and development ordinances and approve or disapprove of any related land use decisions
concerning these ordinances; and

       WHEREAS, the Town reserves the right to extend this moratorium if additional time is
needed to complete the regulatory process.

                                        Ordinance No. XX-2026
                                        Data Center Moratorium
                                              Page 1 of 3


     NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF
THE TOWN OF CEDAREDGE, COLORADO:

       Section 1.     Moratorium. The Town of Cedaredge shall not accept applications or
engage in pre-submittal activities for data center facilities, as defined in this ordinance, or other
large energy users, including but not limited to planning applications, building permits,
engineering permits, or other development applications related to data center facilities.

        For purposes of this moratorium, a “data center facility” means a purpose-built structure, a
substantial modification to an existing structure, or an integrated group of structures that is
designed and primarily used to house computer servers, data storage systems, large-scale digital
data processing, and/or networking equipment, and associated infrastructure including but not
limited to cooling systems, backup power systems, telecommunications facilities, and battery
storage, sometimes referred to as the following: Digital Infrastructure Facilities, Industrial-Scale
Computing Facilities, or High-Intensity Computing Facilities typically operating on a scale
requiring significant electrical power consumption, water consumption, and/or infrastructure
support.

       Section 2.      Excluded Uses. For the purpose of this moratorium “data center facility”
does not include the following:

               i.      Computer servers, data-storage equipment, or related systems that are
                       incidental and subordinate to the principal lawful use of a building or
                       property and used primarily to support the occupant’s own operations.

               ii.     A telecommunications switching or transmission facility primarily used to
                       route voice or data communications.

               iii.    Computer systems operated by or for a governmental entity, public utility,
                       emergency-service provider, health-care facility, or educational institution
                       which are used primarily to support that entity’s governmental, utility,
                       emergency, healthcare, or educational services, and, provided such systems
                       are not principally used to provide commercial third-party hosting or
                       computing services.

               iv.     Temporary computing or communications equipment deployed by a
                       governmental entity, emergency-service provider, or public utility solely in
                       response to a declared emergency or service interruption and removed
                       within [90] days after the emergency or interruption ends.

        Section 3.    Moratorium Term. This moratorium shall commence on effective date of
this ordinance and continue in full force and effect until the earliest of February 20, 2027, or until
appropriate definitions, standards and conditions can be considered and adopted into the
Cedaredge Municipal Code, whichever comes first. The Board of Trustees retains the right to
extend the moratorium by ordinance if needed. As of the date of passage of this moratorium, there
are no pending applications for a “data center facility” to be developed within the Town.

        Section 4.      Enforcement. This moratorium is effective in the incorporated limits of the
Town of Cedaredge. Failure to comply with the provisions of this Ordinance shall be deemed a
violation of the provisions of Title 16 of the Town Code and enforced in accordance with Chapter
1.16 of the Town Code.

        Section 5.      Ordinance Effect. Existing ordinances or parts of ordinances covering the
same matters as embraced in this Ordinance are hereby repealed and any and all ordinances or
parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed, provided,
however, that the repeal of any ordinance or parts of ordinances of the Town shall not revive any
other section of any ordinance or ordinances hereto before repealed or superseded and further
provided that this repeal shall not affect or prevent the prosecution or punishment of any person
for any act done or committed in violation of any ordinance hereby repealed prior to the taking
                                        Ordinance No. XX-2026
                                        Data Center Moratorium
                                              Page 2 of 3


effect of this Ordinance.

        INTRODUCED, READ, PASSED, AND ORDERED PUBLISHED AS AN
EMERGENCY in accordance with the Cedaredge Home Rule Charter, Section 1-8 and Section
1-12, this 20th day of August, 2026, with an affirmative vote of 5 Trustees (quorum plus one):



AYES:
NOS:
ABSTAIN:

                                                   TOWN OF CEDAREDGE,
                                                   COLORADO, A MUNICIPAL
                                                   CORPORATION


                                            ____________________________________
                                            Greg Hart, Mayor



                                                                               (SEAL)



ATTEST:



___________________________________________
Brooke Wood, Town Clerk




                                     Ordinance No. XX-2026
                                     Data Center Moratorium
                                           Page 3 of 3


                                                                           (Back to Top)


                                        MEMORANDUM

To:                 Mayor and Board of Trustees

From:               Carl Holm, Interim Town Administrator
                    Bo Nerlin, Town Attorney

Agenda Date:        August 20, 2026

Item:               Memorandum of Understanding; Senior Meals Program

RECOMMENDATION(S):
  a. Approve a Memorandum of Understanding for Region 10 Area Agency on Aging to use
     the Cedaredge Community Center kitchen and dining hall to serve senior meals.
         a. August 1, 2026 to June 30, 2027 with option to renew annually.

SUMMARY/DISCUSSION:
Continued from 7/23/2206
Region 10’s Area Agency of Aging (AAA) is currently changing their service delivery model and
would like to look at new ways of assisting seniors in need in the Cedaredge/Surface Creek area.
They currently utilize the Stolte Shed but that facility can be subject to schedule conflicts. As
such, they are seeking an alternative site in the Cedaredge area that has fewer scheduling issues.

Attached is a Memorandum of Understanding for Region 10 Area Agency on Aging -Senior
Resources (AAA) to use the Cedaredge Community Center kitchen and dining hall. The Town
would provide in-kind contributions by waiving the cost of utilities and the facility use fee.

Pursuant to Board direction on 7/23, staff revised the MOU with liability language that is
highlighted in the attached draft. Region 10 reviewed the language to ensure that they can add
the site/Town to their insurance. They have accepted the changes as drafted by staff.




MOU; Senior Meals
8/20/2026; Board of Trustees
Page 1 of 1


                       REGION 10 AAA MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING




This Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) establishes the respective roles and responsibilities of Region 10
Area Agency on Aging (Region 10 AAA) and the Town of Cedaredge (Town) for the operation of an Older
Americans Act Congregate Nutrition Program meal site serving eligible older adults within the Town of
Cedaredge and surrounding area. The parties agree to work collaboratively to provide a safe, welcoming, and
accessible congregate meal program in compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws,
regulations, and program requirements.

Roles and Responsibilities
I.     Responsibilities of the Town of Cedaredge
       The Town of Cedaredge agrees to:
       1. Provide an appropriate facility for the operation of the Congregate Nutrition Program, including
           adequate space for meal service and participant activities, and needed signage, equipment, etc.
           necessary to meet program standards.
       2. Provide reasonable access to the facility during mutually agreed upon days and hours of operation to
           allow for meal delivery, meal service, participant activities, and program administration.
       3. Maintain the facility in a safe, clean, and accessible condition and maintain appropriate property and
           liability insurance for the premises. Provide and maintain equipment needed to support receiving and
           preparation of the meals.
       4. Promptly notify Region 10 AAA of any issues that may affect the safe or continuous operation of the
           Congregate Nutrition Program, including facility or equipment issues, food safety concerns, or
           participant health and safety concerns.

II.     Responsibilities of Region 10 Area Agency on Aging
        Region 10 AAA agrees to:
        1. Coordinate with the designated nutrition service provider to ensure the delivery of eligible congregate
           meals to the Cedaredge meal site on approved service days.
        2. Administer the Congregate Nutrition Program in accordance with the Older Americans Act,
           applicable federal regulations, Colorado State Unit on Aging requirements, and Region 10 AAA
           policies and procedures.
        3. Provide participant forms, reporting tools, policies, procedures, guidance, and other program
           materials necessary for administration of the meal program.
        4. Recruit, coordinate, and supervise volunteers who will serve meals to participants. Volunteers shall
           perform meal service in accordance with all applicable food safety requirements as outlined in the
           Colorado Department of Human Services, State Unit on Aging, Policy and Procedure Manual section
           411.71.
        5. Ensure that all volunteers and personnel involved in receiving, handling, and serving meals comply
           with applicable federal, state, and local food safety and sanitation requirements, including any food
           temperature monitoring, food handling procedures, and documentation required by Region 10 AAA.
        6. Collect and maintain participant information and program documentation as required including
           participant sign-in records, meal counts, voluntary contribution documentation, and any additional
           records required to support Older Americans Act program administration.
        7. Monitor program operations for compliance with applicable federal, state, and local requirements,
           including participant documentation, reporting, meal service, and other program performance
           expectations.
        8. Serve as the primary liaison with the contracted nutrition service provider and coordinate resolution
           of issues related to meal delivery, program operations, and compliance.


                                                                                                       Page 1 of 3


       9. To the fullest extent permitted by law, indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the Town, its agents and
           employees, from any claims, liabilities, damages, losses, costs, or expenses, including reasonable
           attorneys’ fees, arising from any incident, injury, loss, or damage occurring at the facility during the
           operation of the Congregate Nutrition Program or otherwise resulting from Region 10 AAA’s use of
           the facility.
       10. Maintain appropriate liability insurance Region 10 AAA’s activities at the facility, and upon request
           provide evidence of the same to the Town, and naming the Town as an additional insured.

III.   Meal Preparation and Meal Service
       The parties acknowledge that meals served through the Congregate Nutrition Program will be prepared by
       a qualified nutrition service provider under contract with, or authorized by, the Region 10 Area Agency
       on Aging.

       Region 10 AAA is responsible for coordinating meal delivery to the Cedaredge meal site.

       The Town of Cedaredge is responsible for receiving delivered meals as needed and maintaining
       appropriate food safety practices while meals are in its custody.

       The Town of Cedaredge shall not be responsible for the preparation, nutritional content, or production of
       meals prepared by the contracted nutrition service provider.

IV.    Food Safety and Program Compliance
       The Town of Cedaredge agrees to comply with all applicable federal, state, and local food safety laws,
       regulations, and guidance governing the receipt, handling, holding, and service of meals.

       Region 10 AAA shall provide guidance and technical assistance on program compliance and conduct
       monitoring activities as necessary to ensure compliance with the Older Americans Act requirements and
       other applicable program standards.

V.     Joint Responsibilities
       Region 10 AAA and the Town of Cedaredge agree to work collaboratively to:
       • Ensure eligible older adults have access to safe, nutritious congregate meals in a welcoming and
           accessible environment.
       • Maintain open communication regarding program operations, participant needs, meal service, and
           compliance requirements.
       • Address operational concerns in a timely manner to minimize disruption of meal service.
       • Promote participant dignity, choice, and independence while delivering services in a manner that is
           free from discrimination and consistent with the Older Americans Act.
       • Cooperate during program monitoring, audits, quality improvement activities, and implementation of
           any corrective actions necessary to maintain compliance with program requirements.

VI.    General Understanding
       Nothing in this Memorandum of Understanding shall be construed to create a partnership, joint venture,
       or employment relationship between the parties. Each party shall remain responsible for carrying out the
       duties assigned under this Agreement and for complying with all applicable federal, state, and local laws,
       regulations, and program requirements within its respective area of responsibility.

VII.   Assurances
       The Town of Cedaredge and Region 10 AAA assure and represent that they:

       Have all the requisite authority to execute this MOU and will comply with all applicable Federal and

                                                                                                       Page 2 of 3


        state laws, regulations, and program requirements.

VIII.   Effective Date/Duration/Termination
        This MOU shall take effect August 1, 2026, and expire June 30, 2027, with option to renew annually.

SIGNATURES

Region 10 Area Agency on Aging designee

 ____________________________                   ____________________________           ______________
 Signature                                      Title                                  Date


Agency/Organization Authorized Signature

 ____________________________
 Agency/Organization

 ____________________________                   ____________________________           ______________
 Signature                                      Title                                  Date




                                                                                                    Page 3 of 3

                                                                    (Back to Top)


                                         MEMORANDUM

To:                 Mayor and Board of Trustees

From:               Bo Nerlin, Town Attorney
                    Brooke Wood, Town Clerk
                    Carl Holm, Interim Town Administrator

Agenda Date:        August 20, 2026

Item:               2026 General Election Ballot Language

Attached:           A) Resolution XX-2026 [Ex A-Draft Ballot Language]; B) IGA [Ex A-
                    Responsibilities, Ex B-Dates & Locations]; C) Timetable; D) Fair Campaign
                    Practices

RECOMMENDATION(S):
  a. Adopt Resolution XX-2026; Submitting to the Electorate of the Town of Cedaredge at the
     November 3, 2026, Coordinated Election, a Certain Question Authorizing the Increase of
     Sales and Use Taxes for the Purposes Described in the Ballot Question.
         a. Option 1: Adopt Resolution with ballot language as presented.
         b. Option 2: Adopt Resolution with revised ballot language [provide specific direction]
         c. Option 3: Provide direction to staff for amending the ballot language and continue
             action on this item to a specific meeting date/time (Special Meeting). [Reminder: the
             deadline to file the final language with the County Clerk is September 4, 2026.]
  b. Approve an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with Delta County (Clerk and
     Recorder) specifying terms and procedures for the conduct of the General Election which
     is scheduled for November 3, 2026.

SUMMARY
As part of the November 3, 2026, general election, the Town plans to request voters to approve a
1% sales and use tax increase (from 2% to 3%) to be used by the town for community projects,
programs and services. Staff is seeking Board action on finalizing ballot language (see
Discussion below). Items to address:
   1) Description of specific uses; AND
   2) Allocation(s):
            a. Set % breakdown for each use listed; OR
            b. Remove % leaving discretion to future Board’s for allocating these funds (to be
               used for the uses specified).

As drafted, this tax would generate revenue for the general fund that is specifically (restricted) as
follows:
    • 40% for maintenance, repair and improvement of town streets, sidewalks and other core
       facilities and infrastructure; and
2026 General Election; Ballot Language
8/20/2026; Board of Trustees
Page 1 of 4


   •   25% for maintenance and development of additional town public recreational facilities
       such as trails, sport courts, public parks; however, no proceeds of such tax shall be
       allocated to the town-owned golf course; and
   •   20% for operating expenses for municipal law and code enforcement, including a school
       resource officer; and
   •   15% for economic development activities supporting businesses located within the Town
       of Cedaredge including marketing, promotions, and events.

Based on an estimated $450,000 in revenue, the revenue that could be generated would be
estimated as follows:
    - 40% = $180,000
    - 35% = $157,500
    - 30% = $135,000
    - 25% = $112,500
    - 20% = $90,000
    - 15% = $67,500

DISCUSSION:
On July 24, 2026, the Town Clerk notified the County Clerk and Recorder in writing about
wanting to participate in the November 3, 2026, General Election. Notifying the County Clerk’s
office does not obligate the Town to participate with a ballot measure. The estimated cost for the
County would be $5,271.63 with Tabor. The next steps (deadline November 4, 2026) would be
to:
    1) Submit proposed ballot language; and
    2) Enter into an intergovernmental agreement (IGA) with the County Clerk.

Two (2) Town Hall meetings have been held on June 9th and July 9th. The July Town Hall was
well attended with 40-50 participants. Initial draft ballot language was developed based on input
from this Town Hall as well as 2024 survey results and Board comments. Contract legal counsel
(Butler and Snow) reviewed the draft ballot language to ensure it meets Colorado laws.

On August 6, 2026, staff presented the initial draft ballot language to the Trustees. Following
some discussion, the Board scheduled a Town Hall meeting on August 10, 2026. The focus of
this Town Hall was to introduce the draft language and request feedback on the draft language,
including the proposed uses and percentages. There were 10-15 people in attendance, including a
couple of new people that had not attended any prior meetings/town halls.

Staff’s takeaways from this last Board meeting (8/6) and Town Hall (8/10):
    • These four buckets are appropriate. The struggle is assigning percentages, which shifted
        around as the conversation progressed.
    • Recreation and Economic Development seem to be the right percentages (25% and 15%
        respectively). Retaining the exclusion for the golf course is important.
    • A couple of Trustees advocated for more funding toward streets, shifting from recreation
        and/or economic development. However, that did not seem to be a consensus.
    • The discussion ultimately was around shifting 5-10% from Streets to PD.


       o     Chief Sanders advocated to keep PD at its current level which is a staff of 8,
             which equates to 3.1 per 1,000 population. This gained favor from the crowd at
             the Town Hall based on his commentary.
        o There was a question around how much a police officer costs.
                  There are four (4) Police Officer I positions filled. The base salary range
                     for this classification is $60,480 - $81,398.
                  The PD Administrative Assistant position has a base salary range of
                     $47,758 - $64,276. In comparison, this is slightly higher than a
                     Maintenance Worker II and up to $10,000 more than a Maintenance
                     Worker I position.
                  Benefit costs average an additional $2,600/employee/month or
                     $31,200/employee/year. [This amount was derived by taking actual cost of
                     $436,489.46 for 24 employees over 7 months of 2026.]
             [NOTE: This data is meant as informational only. Discussion about staffing and
             benefits will occur as part of the 2027 budget process.]
•   There are other restricted funds available through the following sources:
        o Sales Tax/Major Roads: $228,551 (2025). Limited to road construction.
        o Sales Tax/Capital: $171,481 (2025). Available for any capital improvement,
             including roads and recreation projects.
        o Highway Users Tax: $107,185 (2025). Available for road construction,
             maintenance and operations (staffing). Operations includes public safety.
        o Marijuana Tax; $42,138 (2026 projection). Limited to streets, recreation and
             police. Available for development and/or operations. Recreation does not exclude
             the golf course.
        o Conservation Trust Fund: $28,975 (2025). Available for recreation uses.
             Recreation does not exclude the golf course.
        o Back the Badge (County sales tax): $306,045 (2025). Available for any law
             enforcement/public safety use. Sunsets 2028.
        o Opioid Settlement: $2,468.79 (2025). Limited to opioid-related training or
             equipment.
•   One Trustee stated they felt language stating that funding would be used for “police”
    would not be supported. "Police" is not specifically stated in the draft language. There
    was conversation around wordsmithing (e.g. Law Enforcement or Public Safety). In the
    July Town Hall, it was emphasized that specifying the SRO is important.
•   There was a suggestion for less specificity, allowing more flexibility. There seemed to be
    a general consensus that more specificity is needed for people to know where the money
    will be going to help mitigate a lack of trust (identified in the Magellan survey).
        o One option that has not yet been discussed would be to remove percentages for
             the four specific uses so the 1% tax would go toward the four specific uses but
             with no required breakdown. This adds specificity for the use of the funds with
             flexibility for how the Board could allocate the funding within those four buckets
             (similar to the marijuana tax). The question is if the public would support giving
             such discretion to the Board.
•   There was a question about “debrucing” language. Staff confirmed with legal counsel that
    this is included as part of the last clause of the ballot language (not explicit)?


Currently the State Department of Revenue (DOR) applies the following exemptions to
Cedaredge sales tax collection:
    - Electricity, gas, etc. for residential use per CDPHE (DOR Class C)
    - Occasional Sales for charitable organizations (DOR Class D)
    - Diapers and incontinence products (DOR Class S)
    - Period products (DOR Class T)
These exemptions are established by Code (Ordinance). To make any changes will require an
ordinance amending Chapter 3.04 of the Cedaredge Municipal Code (CMC). An ordinance
would be required to increase the sales tax % if the measure passes in November. The Town is
required to inform DOR at least 45 days prior to collecting taxes, which means sending notice
when/if the measure passes even if the election has not yet been certified. There is a Board
meeting scheduled for November 5, 2026 to adopt an ordinance amending Chapter 3.04 CMC
increasing the tax rate and addressing any changes to the exemptions.


                                    RESOLUTION XX-2026

                    A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
                     OF THE TOWN OF CEDAREDGE, COLORADO

  Submitting to the Electorate of the Town of Cedaredge at the November 3, 2026, Coordinated
 Election, a Certain Question Authorizing the Increase of Sales and Use Taxes for the Purposes
                                Described in the Ballot Question.

       WHEREAS, the Town of Cedaredge, in Delta County, and the State of Colorado (the
“Town”), is a home rule municipal corporation duly organized and existing under laws of the State
of Colorado and the Town Charter (the “Charter”); and

        WHEREAS, the members of the Board of Trustees of the Town (the “Board”) have been
duly elected and qualified; and

       WHEREAS, Article X, Section 20 of the Colorado Constitution, also referred to as the
Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights (“TABOR”), requires voter approval for any new tax, any increase in
any tax rate, and the spending of certain funds above limits established by TABOR; and

        WHEREAS, the Board wishes to submit to the registered electors of the Town a ballot
issue seeking to authorize an increase of sales and use taxes; and

        WHEREAS, TABOR requires that the Town submit ballot issues, as defined in TABOR,
to the Town’s registered electors on specified election days before action can be taken on such
ballot issues; and

       WHEREAS, Article V, Section 5-1 of the Charter provides that Town elections shall be
governed by the Colorado Municipal Election Code of 1965 unless otherwise provided by the
Charter or by ordinance; and

       WHEREAS, Section 31-10-102.7, C.R.S., of the Colorado Municipal Election Code,
provides that a municipality may provide by ordinance or resolution that it will utilize the
requirements and procedures of the Uniform Election Code of 1992; and

        WHEREAS, on November 3, 2026, the Delta County Clerk (the “County Clerk”) will be
conducting a coordinated election (the “Election”) pursuant to the Uniform Election Code of 1992
(the “Election Code”); and

       WHEREAS, the Board wishes to hold an election on November 3, 2026, in conjunction
with the Election; and

      WHEREAS, November 3, 2026, is one of the election dates at which TABOR ballot issues
may be submitted to the registered electors of the Town pursuant to TABOR.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of the Town of
Cedaredge, Colorado, that:

       Section 1.     All action heretofore taken (not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Resolution) by the Town and the officers thereof, directed toward the Election and the objects and
purposes herein stated is ratified, approved and confirmed. Unless otherwise defined herein, all
terms used herein shall have the meanings specified in the Election Code.

        Section 2.     The Election shall be conducted as a coordinated election by the County
Clerk pursuant to TABOR and the Uniform Election Code of 1992, and all laws amendatory
thereof and supplemental thereto. The Election shall also be conducted pursuant to the provisions
of an intergovernmental agreement (the “intergovernmental agreement”) between the Town and
the County Clerk. The Town hereby determines that the Election shall be held on November 3,
2026, and that there shall be submitted to the eligible electors of the Town the question set forth
herein. Because the Election will be held as part of the coordinated election, the Board hereby
                                         Resolution XX-2026
                               2026 Coordinated Election-Ballot Question
                                             Page 1 of 3


determines that the County Clerk shall conduct the Election on behalf of the Town pursuant to the
Uniform Election Code of 1992 and the applicable intergovernmental agreement. The officers of
the Town are hereby authorized to enter into one or more intergovernmental agreements with the
County Clerk pursuant to Section 1-7-116, C.R.S. Any such intergovernmental agreement
heretofore entered into in connection with the Election is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed.

        Section 3.      The Board hereby authorizes and directs the officers of the Town to certify
on or before September 4, 2026, the following election question in substantially the form
hereinafter set forth to the County Clerk, which such question shall be submitted to the eligible
electors of the Town at the Election:

SHALL TOWN OF CEDAREDGE TAXES BE INCREASED $500,000 IN 2027 (THE FIRST
FULL FISCAL YEAR) AND BY SUCH ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS AS ARE GENERATED
ANNUALLY THEREAFTER THROUGH THE IMPOSITION OF AN ADDITIONAL 1%
SALES AND USE TAX COMMENCING JANUARY 1, 2027, TO BE USED BY THE TOWN
FOR COMMUNITY PROJECTS, PROGRAMS AND SERVICES, SPECIFICALLY
INCLUDING:

   •   40% FOR MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND IMPROVEMENT OF TOWN STREETS,
       SIDEWALKS AND OTHER CORE FACILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE; AND

   •   25% FOR MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT OF ADDITIONAL TOWN
       PUBLIC RECREATIONAL FACILITIES SUCH AS TRAILS, SPORT COURTS,
       PUBLIC PARKS; HOWEVER, NO PROCEEDS OF SUCH TAX SHALL BE
       ALLOCATED TO THE TOWN-OWNED GOLF COURSE; AND

   •   20% FOR OPERATING EXPENSES FOR MUNICIPAL LAW AND CODE
       ENFORCEMENT, INCLUDING A SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICER; AND

   •   15% FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES SUPPORTING BUSINESSES
       LOCATED WITHIN THE TOWN OF CEDAREDGE INCLUDING MARKETING,
       PROMOTIONS, AND EVENTS; AND

AND SHALL THE TOWN BE AUTHORIZED TO COLLECT, RETAIN, AND SPEND ALL
REVENUES FROM SUCH SALES AND USE TAX AS A VOTER-APPROVED REVENUE
CHANGE AND EXCEPTION TO ANY SPENDING OR REVENUE RESTRICTIONS OR
OTHER LIMITS PURSUANT TO ARTICLE X, SECTION 20 OF THE COLORADO
CONSTITUTION?

       Section 4.   The Town Clerk is hereby appointed as the designated election official of
the Town for purposes of performing acts required or permitted by law in connection with the
Election.

         Section 5.       Pursuant to Section 1-11-203.5, C.R.S., any election contest arising out of
a ballot issue or ballot question election concerning the order of the ballot or the form or content
of the ballot title shall be commenced by petition filed with the proper court within five days after
the title of the ballot issue or ballot question is set.

        Section 6.      The officers and employees of the Town are hereby authorized and directed
to take all action necessary or appropriate to effectuate the provisions of this Resolution.

        Section 7.     All actions heretofore taken (not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Resolution) by the Town, directed towards the Election and the objects and purposes herein stated,
are hereby ratified, approved, and confirmed.

        Section 8.      If any portion of this Resolution is held to be invalid for any reason, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Resolution. The Board hereby
declares that it would have passed this Resolution and each part hereof irrespective of the fact that
any one part be declared invalid.

                                         Resolution XX-2026
                               2026 Coordinated Election-Ballot Question
                                             Page 2 of 3


       Section 9.      All other resolutions or portions thereof inconsistent or conflicting with this
Resolution or any portion hereof are hereby repealed to the extent of such inconsistency or conflict.

       PASSED AND ADOPTED, as set forth above, this 6th day of August 2026, by the
following vote, to wit:

AYES:
NOS:
ABSTAIN:

                                                ____________________________________
                                                Greg Hart, Mayor



                                                                                     (SEAL)



ATTEST:



___________________________________________
Brooke Wood, Town Clerk




                                          Resolution XX-2026
                                2026 Coordinated Election-Ballot Question
                                              Page 3 of 3


                                 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT


This Agreement between the County Clerk and Recorder of Delta County (hereafter Clerk) and the Town of
Cedaredge (hereafter District) is to specify terms and procedures for the conduct of the General Election which
is scheduled for November 3, 2026.

1. PURPOSE: Pursuant to the terms of this agreement the Clerk and the District agree to the scheduling of a
Mail Ballot Election on November 3, 2026. This election shall be under the provisions of Title 1 of the Colorado
Revised Statutes.

2. DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY: The District, hereby delegates and transfers to the Clerk all such power,
   authority and duties which reside in the District for the purpose of conducting the election. The respective
   responsibilities between the Clerk and the District shall be described on Exhibit A.

3. VOTER SERVICE AND POLLING CENTER LOCATIONS: Voter Service and Polling Center Locations are
   available for voters to register to vote, change address, request ballots or replacement ballots, vote and/or
   deposit mail ballots. The following locations and dates are attached on Exhibit B.

4. ELECTION JUDGES: All Election Judges will be the responsibility of the Clerk.

5. LEGAL NOTICES: Pursuant to 1-5-205 published and posted notice of election, which is required to be
   published no later than 20 days before the election, will be the responsibility of the Clerk. All legal notices
   concerning the District which are to be published prior to certification of the ballot content to the Clerk shall
   be the responsibility of the District.

6. TABOR NOTICES: The District shall follow the 2026 Tabor Notice Calendar with regard to filing dates, form,
   etc. to be filed with the Clerk. The Clerk will be responsible for the mailing of the Tabor notices.
   • September 18, 2026 is the last day to file written comments concerning local ballot issues with the
        Designated Election Official (District)
   • September 21, 2026 is the last day for the Designated Election Official (District) to deliver ballot issue
        notice to the Clerk
   • October 2, 2026 the Clerk will mail notice of a ballot issue election


7. PROPERTY OWNERS: Ballots required to be mailed to property owners in accordance of C.R.S. 32-1-
   103(5)(a) will be the responsibility of the District.
   • The District will obtain a property owner list from the Assessor and certify the eligible property owners to
      the Clerk
   • Should the District fail to verify the property owners that are registered electors in the State of Colorado,
      the Clerk will charge a base fee of $500 to do so
   • If the verification process exceeds 30 Business hours, an additional fee of $18 an hour will be charged
      for each hour spent on the verification, beyond the initial 30 hours


8. BALLOT CONTENT: In accordance with Colorado law, the ballot content must be certified to the Clerk by
   the District, in its exact and final form, no later than 4:30 p.m. on September 4, 2026 electronically in plain
   text format on the provided certification templates to elections@deltacountyco.gov.
   • The District will certify the ballot content in the order in which it will appear on the ballot
   • The Clerk will number the ballot issue’s according to the order in which the measures are certified
   • To avoid ballot space issues, the Clerk requests that each issue and question is not more than 250
        words
   • All caps are reserved for TABOR issues only per C.R.S. 1-40-115
   • The Clerk will not provide legal advice
   • The Clerk’s office will provide a copy of the ballot layout to the Designated Election Official, or their
        designee, for proofreading before printing ballots
   • The Designated Election Official will return a signed copy of the ballot layout stating the wording is
        correct within 2 hours of receiving a proof unless otherwise specified


9. TESTING AND AUDITING: Conduct of the required tests and audits of the voting system prior to and after
   the Election pursuant to C.R.S. 1-7-509 will be the responsibility of the Clerk. The county will convene a
   Testing and Risk Limiting Audit Board.


10. CONDUCT OF THE ELECTION: The Clerk will be responsible for coordinating and conducting the election
    in accordance of The Colorado Constitution, Colorado Revised Statutes, Secretary of State Election Rules,
    and HAVA requirements.

11. VERIFICATION OF SIGNATURES: In accordance with C.R.S. 1-7.5-107.3 the Clerk will be responsible for
    signature verification. Electors shall have until 8 days after the election to return the signature discrepancy
    affidavit and have their ballot counted.

12. TABULATION OF BALLOTS: All processes relating to the tabulation of ballots will be the responsibility of
    the Clerk.
     • Preliminary unofficial results will be available on the Delta County website, www.deltacountyco.gov
         under news alerts on election night by 7:30 p.m. and will be updated periodically and once tabulating is
         complete on Election Night
     • Hard copies of the unofficial results will be available in the office election night or if requested emailed
         the following morning

13. CANVASS OF VOTES: The canvass of votes will be the responsibility of the Clerk. Official results of the
    canvass will be provided to all Entities participating in the Election.

14. ALLOCATION OF COST OF ELECTION: The Clerk will determine the cost allocation for each political
    subdivision participating in the General Election.
    • The District will reimburse the Clerk for its fair share of the costs, including but not limited to, publication
       cost, printing costs, mailing costs, judges’ fees, employee overtime and mileage
    • The District shall promptly pay the Delta County Clerk & Recorder in full with-in thirty days unless
       arrangements have been made ahead of time
    • The District will need to supply the Clerk with contact information, including mailing address and
       electronic address for the Designated Election Official and any backup personnel if available

15. CANCELLATION OF ELECTION: An election may be cancelled when:
    • No later than twenty-five days before an election conducted as a coordinated election in November, and
      at any time prior to any other election, a governing body may by resolution withdraw one or more ballot
      issues or ballot questions from the ballot
    • The ballot issues and ballot questions shall be deemed to have not been submitted and votes cast on
      the ballot issues and ballot questions shall either not be counted or shall be deemed invalid by action of
      the governing body
    • Any expenditure already incurred shall be the responsibility of the District in the event the election is
      cancelled

16. VENUE: Venue for any dispute hereunder shall be in the District Court of Delta County.

17. INDEMNIFICATION: The District agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Clerk from any and all
    loss, costs, demands or actions, arising out of or related to any actions, error or omissions of the District in
    completing its responsibilities relating to the General Election.


DELTA COUNTY CLERK AND RECORDER                        TOWN OF CEDAREDGE

______________________________________                 ________________________________________


DATE__________________________________                 DATE_____________________________________


THIS AGREEMENT MUST BE SIGNED AND RETURNED TO THE DELTA COUNTY CLERK AND
RECORDER BY CLOSE OF BUSINESS AUGUST 25, 2026.


Town of Cedaredge
                                                  Responsibilities                                               Exhibit A
November 3, 2026

                      County Clerk                                                     District
                                                 Accept Voter Registration
Prepare and Submit Mail Ballot Plan to Secretary of State
                             Sign Intergovernmental Agreement (70 Days) C.R.S. 1-7-116(2)
Appoint Election Judges                                       Certify Ballot Content to County Clerk (60 Days) C.R.S. 1-5-
Program Ballot                                                                         203(3)(a)
Print Ballots
Hardware Testing                                                Ballot Issue Notices-Collect written comments (Noon
Public Logic and Accuracy Testing                                  Friday before 45 Days[If applicable]) 1-7-901(4)
  Assemble & Mail ballot packets (29 Days) C.R.S. 1-7.5-
                       107(3)(a)                              Deliver Ballot Issue Notice to County Clerk (42 Days) C.R.S.
       Mail Ballot Issue Notice (30 Days) Art. X Sect                                   1-7-904
                1(7.5)(b)/C.R.S. 1-1-106(5)

                                                              Request list of property owners no later than the 40th day
                                                                 prececding the election from the county assessor.
Receive and Process returned Ballots

                                                              Submit verified registered elector property owner list to
                                                              County Clerk no later then 30 days prior to election day.
Legal Notices-Clerk will publish 20 Day Notice per C.R.S. 1- Unless other arrangements have been made for county to
                           5-205                                             verify property owner list.
Election Day - Office Hours 7:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M.            Any required notices to be published prior to Certification
Risk Limiting Audit                                                      is the responsibility of the district
Canvass Election Returns
Certify Election Results


                                          Estimated Cost of Election
                                                 Election Cost Breakdown

Ballot Issue Notice - Only if there is a Tabor question.                                                       $1,018.13

Estimated Election Cost                                                                                        $4,253.50
Total Estimated Cost Including Tabor                                                                           $5,271.63
Costs without Tabor                                                                                            $4,253.50
Estimated Property Owners (If applicable)
Active Voters                                                                                                      1,810
Total Voters                                                                                                    1,810
   *Estimated costs reflects Active voters and property owners as of the time this estimate was created. Costs may
  h      d    di           i i i f           h     ii          f      li i l di       i i     d    d i      P



                                                                                                     Prepared: 8/14/2026


Town of Cedaredge
                                               Responsibilities                                               Exhibit A
November 3, 2026
 change depending on participation from other entities, costs of supplies including printing and production. Property
                              owners are estimated. Only Actual costs will be billed.




                                                                                                  Prepared: 8/14/2026


                                     NOTICE OF THE GENERAL ELECTION
                                            NOVEMBER 3, 2026
                                        DELTA COUNTY, COLORADO

                 Ballots will be mailed the week of October 5, 2026 to all eligible active registered voters.

                       Ballots will not forward so please make sure your mailing address is current.

  Ballots may be returned by U.S. Mail (affix adequate postage) or may be dropped off at a designated drop off location.


                    You can verify, update your address, or register to vote at www.govotecolorado.gov
                                             up to 8 days prior to Election Day.

                             Sample ballots are available online at myballot.coloradosos.gov


                                           Voter Service and Polling Centers

                                    Voter Service and Polling Center Locations
                             In Person Voting, Mail Ballot Replacement & Drop Boxes
                        *ADA accessible voting machines are available at any VSPC listed below.


                                               Delta Human Services
                                       Roubideau Room 320 W. 5th St, Delta Co
                      Access Voter Service and Polling Center from the parking lot on Dodge Street
                      Monday through Friday (October 19th – November 2nd) 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
                                    Saturday (October 31st) 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
                                  Election Day (November 3rd) 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.

                                                   North Fork Annex
                                           196 W. Hotchkiss Ave, Hotchkiss Co
                                       Monday (November 2nd) 8:30 am to 4:30 pm
                                               (Closed from 12:30 to 1:30)
                                    Election Day (November 3rd) 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.

                                                 Orchard City Town Hall
                                                9661 2100 Rd, Austin Co
                                    Election Day (November 3rd) 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.

                           24 Hour Ballot Drop Boxes – Available Starting October 5, 2026

                                         Delta Courthouse - 501 Palmer St, Delta
                                    Cedaredge Library – 180 SW 6th Ave, Cedaredge
                                  North Fork Annex - 196 W Hotchkiss Ave, Hotchkiss
                                       Paonia Town Hall – 214 Grand Ave, Paonia
                                      Town of Orchard City – 9661 2100 Rd, Austin
                                     Town of Crawford – 425 Highway 92 Crawford


Track Your Ballot: Visit Delta.BallotTrax.net and sign up for alerts when we receive, accept and count your ballot. You may
 select the types of messages you want to receive, when during the day you want to receive them, or stop receiving them
                     altogether, if you prefer. OR visit www.GoVoteColorado.gov or call 970-874-2153


                  COORDINATED MAIL BALLOT ELECTION TIMETABLE

                                 Ballot Issue Election - November 3, 2026

         All statutory references are to the Colorado Revised Statutes, as amended; rule references are to the Election
Rules of the Colorado Secretary of State, as amended, and in effect as of the date of this timetable. This timetable
only provides dates for Ballot Issue Elections; no dates are included for Board or Council member elections. This
timetable will vary depending on meeting schedules, publication dates, and any election contest.

                 DATE                                            EVENT
 July 16 (no later than 110 days prior to County Clerk and Recorder (“County Clerk”) or
 the election).                           designated election official sends a proposed election
                                          plan for conducting a coordinated mail ballot election
                                          to the Secretary of State. The proposed plan may be
                                          based on the standard plan adopted by the Secretary of
                                          State by Rule. §1-7.5-105(1). Rule 7.1.1.

 July 24 (100 days before the election) Political subdivision notifies County Clerk in writing
 (Since 100 days is Sunday, July 26, use regarding the political subdivision’s participation in a
 Friday, July 24. §1-1-106(5)).          coordinated election, if the political subdivision has
                                         taken formal action to participate in the election. §1-7-
                                         116(5).

 August 5 (within 20 days after receipt Secretary of State shall approve or disapprove the
 of written mail ballot plan by the written mail ballot plan for a coordinated election
 Secretary of State).                   within 20 days after receiving it and shall provide a
                                        written notice of approval or disapproval. §1-7.5-
                                        105(2)(a). Rule 7.1.3(b).

 August 25 (no later than 70 days prior Intergovernmental agreement for coordinated election
 to the election).                      must be signed with County Clerk regarding election
                                        duties. §1-7-116(2); Rule 4.1.2. The County Clerk
                                        must include all coordinating districts in the SCORE
                                        (computerized statewide voter registration list ). Rule
                                        4.1.3. The canvassing board is appointed in
                                        accordance with the intergovernmental agreement. §1-
                                        10-202.


September 4 (no later than 60 days Designated Election Official certifies the order of the
before the election).              ballot and the ballot content to the County Clerk of
                                   each county that has territory within the political
                                   subdivision. §1-5-203(3)(a); Rule 4.

                                         The list of ballot issues shall be in the following order:
                                         referred amendments shall be printed first, followed by
                                         initiated amendments, referred propositions, initiated
                                         propositions, county issues and questions, municipal
                                         issues and questions that are wholly within a county,
                                         municipal issues and questions that are in more than
                                         one county, school district issues and questions that
                                         are wholly within a county, school district issues and
                                         questions that are in more than one county, ballot
                                         issues and questions for other political subdivisions
                                         that are wholly within a county, and ballot issues and
                                         questions for other political subdivisions that are in
                                         more than one county. §1-5-407(5)(a).

                                         Measures are ordered as follows: (1) referred measures
                                         to increase taxes; (2) referred measures to retain excess
                                         revenues; (3) referred measures to increase debt; (4)
                                         other referred measures; (5) initiatives to increase
                                         taxes; (6) initiatives to retain excess revenues; (7)
                                         initiatives to increase debt; (8) other citizen petitions.
                                         Rule 4.5.2. See §1-41-103 for local government ballot
                                         matters arising under Article X §20 of the Colorado
                                         Constitution.

September 4 (not more than 60 days First day that the County Clerk can hold a class of
prior to the election).            instruction for election judges and special school of
                                   instruction for supervisor judges. §1-6-101(5).

September 18 (by noon on the Friday Last day to file pro and con statements on ballot issues
before the 45th day before the election. with Designated Election Official. Colo. Const. Art. X
§1-7-901(4)).                            §20(3)(b)(v); §1-7-901(4). TABOR Notice should be
                                         finalized. For political subdivisions of the state that
                                         have no Designated Election Official, the governing
                                         body of a political subdivision shall be solely
                                         responsible for preparing the summary of the filed
                                         comments in favor of and in opposition to the ballot
                                         issue for the TABOR Notice. §1-7-903(3.5).




                                               2


September 18 (no later than 44 days      If a ballot issue is on the ballot as the result of a
before the election) (Since 44 days is   citizen’s petition, petition representatives are required
Sunday, September 20, use Friday,        to submit to the Designated Election Official a
September 18. §1-1-106(5)).              summary of favorable comments. If a summary is not
                                         filed, the Designated Election Official shall print
                                         where the summary would normally appear “No
                                         summary was filed by the statutory deadline.” §1-7-
                                         903(3).

September 19 (not later than 45 days Last day for Designated Election Official to transmit a
before the election).                ballot and balloting materials to all Uniform and
                                     Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (UOCAVA)
                                     covered voters who by this date submit a valid ballot
                                     application. §1-8.3-110(1).
September 19 – October 2 (no sooner Designated Election Official shall provide a mail
than 45 days nor later than 32 days ballot to a registered elector requesting the ballot at the
before the election, October 3).     Designated Election Official’s office or the office
                                     designated in the mail ballot plan filed with the
                                     secretary of state. §1-7.5-107(2.7)

September 21 (no later than 43 days Designated Election Official shall prepare and deliver
before the election).               to the County Clerk(s) for the county or counties in
                                    which the political subdivision is located the full text
                                    of any required ballot issue notices (including the
                                    TABOR Notice). §1-7-904. (Pursuant to an
                                    intergovernmental agreement for a coordinated
                                    election, the County Clerk(s) may have additional
                                    requirements or require notice earlier. §1-7-116(3)).

September 24 (no later than the 40th Last day for Designated Election Official to order the
day preceding the election).         registration records of eligible electors. §1-5-303(1).

                                         For elections where owning property is a requirement
                                         for voting in the election, last day for Designated
                                         Election Official to order the list of property owners
                                         from the County Assessor. §1-5-304(1).

October 2 (no later than 32 days before Ballots must be printed and in possession of the
the election).                          County Clerk. §1-5-403(1).




                                               3


October 2 (at least 30 days before the    Mailing of TABOR Notice by the County Clerk or
election) (Since 30 days is Sunday,       Designated Election Official, at the least cost and as a
October 4, use Friday, October 2. §1-1-   package where districts with ballot issues overlap.
106(5)).                                  Colo. Const. Art. X, §20(3)(b); §1-7-906(1); §1-40-
                                          125; Rule 4.9.
                                          For Special Districts: The Designated Election
                                          Official is responsible for mailing the TABOR Notice
                                          to each address of one or more active registered
                                          electors who do not reside within the county or
                                          counties where the political subdivision is located. §1-
                                          7-906(2).
                                          For All Elections: The text of all ballot issues that are
                                          subject to Article X, Section 20 shall be printed in all
                                          capital letters. §1-40-115(2)(a); Rule 4.8.1.
                                         The names of all candidates and all other ballot issues
                                         and questions shall be printed in upper- and lower-case
                                         letters. Rule 4.8.1.
October 5 - 9 (not sooner than 29 days County Clerk or Designated Election Official mails a
nor later than 25 days before a general, mail ballot packet to each active registered elector. §1-
primary or other mail ballot election). 7.5-107(3)(a). All mail ballot packets must include a
                                         ballot, instructions for completing ballot, and a return
                                         envelope. If the County Clerk chooses not to include a
                                         secrecy envelope or sleeve in the mail ballot packet, he
                                         or she must notify the Secretary of State in the election
                                         plan (§1-7.5-105(1)) and must also explain the
                                         county’s process for ensuring the privacy of marked
                                         ballots. §1-7.5-107.3(5.5). Secretary of State may
                                         otherwise prescribe the form of materials to be used.
                                         §1-7.5-106(1)(a). Rule 7.2.
                                          For a Special District mail ballot election, no sooner
                                          than twenty-two days prior to the election and until 7
                                          p.m. on election day, mail ballots shall be made
                                          available at the office of the designated election
                                          official, or the office designated in the mail ballot plan
                                          filed with the Secretary of State, for eligible electors
                                          who are not listed on the list of property owners or the
                                          registration list but who are authorized to vote
                                          pursuant to §32-1-806 or other applicable law.

October 9 (no later than 25 days before Last day for governing body of political subdivision to
election).                              withdraw a ballot issue from election. §1-5-208(2).
                                          If a municipal clerk has registered any eligible electors
                                          who appear in person at the municipal clerk’s primary


                                                4


                                         office at any time during which registration is
                                         permitted in the office of the County Clerk, the
                                         municipal clerk shall deliver the new registration
                                         records to the office of the County Clerk either in
                                         person or by mail no later than the tenth day of each
                                         month for the month immediately prior and in person
                                         on the day following the last day for registration for
                                         the election. §1-2-202(2).

October 13 (no later than 22 days Last day to timely register to vote by submitting an
before the election, or day after if 22 application through a voter registration drive. §1-2-
days falls on a holiday).               201(3)(b)(I).

October 14 (at least 20 days before Last day to post polling location signs; signs must be
each election).                     posted during the period polling locations are open.
                                    §1-5-106(1)(a).
                                         Last day for the designated election official or the
(no later than 20 days before a general,
                                         coordinated election official to provide notice by
primary or other mail ballot election publication of mail ballot election, §1-5-205(1); and to
election).                               mail a copy of such notice to the County Clerk. §1-5-
                                         205(2). See §1-5-205(1)(a) through (d) for items to be
                                         included in notice.

                                         Special districts may order a preliminary list of
                                         property owners as of the thirtieth day before the
                                         election with a supplementary list to be provided on
                                         the twentieth day before the election, or the Designated
                                         Election Official may order a complete list on the
                                         twentieth day before the election. §1-5-304(2).
                                         A local government (excluding enterprises) submitting
                                         a ballot issue concerning the creation of any debt or
                                         other financial obligation shall post notice of audited
                                         (if available) financial information prescribed by §1-
                                         7-908(1) on the local government’s website, or if the
                                         local government does not maintain a website, at the
                                         local government’s chief administrative office. See
                                         §1-7-908(1)(a)(I) through (V) for specific notice
                                         requirements.

October 19 – November 3 (for the 15- Voter service and polling centers must be open, at a
day period prior to and including the minimum, by this date, except that voter service and
day of the election).                 polling centers are not required to be open on Sundays
                                      and the first Saturday of this period. §1-5-102.9(2).
                                      Each polling location shall comply fully with the


                                               5


                                         current “ADA Standards for Accessible Design”
                                         promulgated in accordance with the federal Americans
                                         with Disabilities Act, and no barrier shall impede the
                                         path of electors with disabilities to the voting booth.
                                         §1-5-703.

                                         Voter registration conducted at locations designated as
                                         voter service and polling centers by County Clerks.
                                         §1-2-201(3)(b)(V), §1-2-217.7(3)(a), §1-5-102.9(2).

October 19 (15 days prior to the         Election officials may begin counting mail ballots, and
election) through October 30 (four       counties with more than 10,000 active electors as of
days prior to the election)              the date of the previous general election MUST begin
                                         counting no later than four days prior to the election.
                                         §1-7.5-107.5; §1-7.5-202(2).

October 23 (at least 10 days prior to    Notice of election posted in a conspicuous place in the
the election) (Since 10 days is          office of the designation election official or the County
Saturday, October 24, use Friday,        Clerk until 2 days after election (i.e., November 5,
October 23. §1-1-106(5)).                2026). §1-5-205(1.3).

October 26 (through the 8th day prior Last day to timely register to vote by submitting an
to an election).                      application through the mail, a voter registration
                                      agency, a local driver’s license examination facility, or
                                      the on-line voter registration system. §1-2-
                                      201(3)(b)(III); §1-2-217.7(3)(c).

October 27 - November 3 (at a Drop-off locations shall accept mail ballots by
minimum, 7 days prior to and including electors. §1-7.5-107(4.3)(b). The minimum number
the day of the election).              of required drop-off locations is described in §1-7.5-
                                       107(4.3)(a).

October 30 (no later than four days Counties with more than ten thousand active electors
prior to the election).             as of the date of the previous general election MUST
                                    begin counting mail ballots no later than four days
                                    prior to the election. §1-7.5-107.5; §1-7.5-202(2).
November 3 - Election Day           ELECTION DAY. (7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.) Colo.
                                    Const. Art. X, §20(3)(a); §1-41-102(1); §1-7-101.
                                         Same day registration permitted. §1-2-201(3)(b)(V);
                                         §1-2-217.7(4).




                                               6


November 3 - 25 (no later than 22nd Canvass board certifies the abstract of votes cast to
day after the election).            Designated Election Official. §1-10-102(1), §1-10-
                                    203(1). Rule 10.3.
                                             Clerk and Recorder shall examine the official abstract
                                             of votes cast and order appropriate recount, if required.
                                             §1-10.5-103. Mandatory recount is required if the
                                             difference between the highest number of votes cast
                                             and the next highest number of votes is less than or
                                             equal to one-half of one percent of the highest number
                                             of votes cast. §1-10.5-101(1)(b).

November 3 – December 4                      Immediately after the abstract of votes cast for each
(immediately after abstract of votes         ballot issue or ballot question has been prepared and
cast is prepared by canvass board and        certified, the Designated Election Official notifies the
certified to designated election official)   governing body of the political subdivision and the
(Since 10 days after the last day to         petition representatives of election results and makes a
certify abstract (November 25) is            certificate of election available for public inspection in
Saturday, December 5, use Friday,            the office of Designated Election Official for no less
December 4. §1-1-106(5)).                    than ten days. §1-11-103(2).

November 5 (within three days from Deadline for County Clerks to send missing signature,
the signature/ID verification but no signature verification, and missing ID letters and
later than 2 days after election day)         emails for mail and provisional ballots. §1-7.5-
                                              107(4)(b)(II), 1-8.3-111, 1-8.3-113(1) and (2).
November 12 (by the close of business Last day to receive a mail ballot from a UOCAVA-
on the 8th day after the election, or day eligible elector, if such ballot was postmarked by 7:00
after if eight days falls on a holiday, § 31- p.m. on the day of election, in order for the ballot to be
10-103).                                      counted. §1-8.3-111; §1-8.3-113(2); Rule 16.1.

                                             Last day for an elector to cure signature discrepancy or
                                             missing signature, or to provide missing ID. §1-7.5-
                                             107(3.5)(d), 1-7.5-107.3(2)(a), 1-8.5-105(3)(a), Rule
                                             7.6.1 and Rule 7.7.5.

November 12 (within 9 days after Last day for the Designated Election Official to
election).                       complete verification and counting of provisional
                                 ballots. The Secretary of State can designate an
                                 alternative period of time if necessary. §1-8.5-105(5);
                                 Rule 17.

November 13 – December 4 (within Last day for an eligible elector to file a written
10 days after official survey of returns statement of intent to contest a ballot issue election in
is filed with designated election district court. §1-11-213(4).
official) (Since 10 days after last day to


                                                   7


file official survey of returns with
designated election official is Saturday,
December 5, use Friday, December 4.
§1-1-106(5)).

November 13 – November 25 (no Last day for an interested party to file a notarized,
sooner than 10 days or later than 22 written request for a recount of ballot issues at his or
days after an election).             her own expense. §1-10.5-106(2).

November 14 – November 26 (no Election official with whom notarized written request
later than the day following receipt of for recount is filed notifies the political subdivision
the request for recount is filed)       that an interested party has requested a recount. §1-
                                        10.5-106(2).

November 25 (no later than the 22nd Last day to complete the canvass and submit the official
day after the election)              abstract of votes cast for the Coordinated Election to the
                                     Secretary of State. §1-10-102(1), 1-10-103(1).
December 3 (within 30 days after the The results of a Special District election shall be
election).                            certified to the Division of Local Government. §1-11-
                                      103(3); §32-1-104(1).

December 4 (no later than the 31st day Mandatory recount must be completed. §1-10.5-103.
after election).

December 8 (no later than the 35th day Requested recount must be completed. §1-10.5-
after election).                       106(2).

December 18 (no later than the 45th For special districts: the results of a special district
day after the election).            ballot issue election to incur general obligation
                                    indebtedness must be certified by the special district
                                    by certified mail to the Board of County
                                    Commissioners of each county in which the special
                                    district is located or to the governing body of a
                                    municipality that has adopted a resolution of approval
                                    for organization of a special district. The special
                                    district shall file a copy of certification with the
                                    Division of Securities. §32-1-1101.5(1)




                                              8


          THE FAIR CAMPAIGN PRACTICES ACT: SPENDING PUBLIC MONEY
                 SUPPORTING OR OPPOSING A BALLOT MEASURE


As the election approaches, it is important for governments, elected officials, and government
employees to remember the limitations imposed by the Fair Campaign Practices Act (the “FCPA”)
on the spending of public funds in connection with election campaigns. The FCPA establishes the
following general rules: a government may not (1) make a contribution in a campaign involving
the nomination, retention, or election of any person or (2) expend moneys from any source, or
make contributions, to urge electors to vote in favor of or against most ballot measures. This
summary focuses on the expenditure of public moneys to urge a vote in favor of or against ballot
measures. While this summary will generally describe the FCPA rules applicable to ballot
measures, governments should consult with legal counsel regarding the specific application of
these rules.

What ballot measures are covered?

Ballot measures to which the FCPA limits apply include:

           •   A statewide ballot issue submitted for the purpose of having a title set pursuant to
               Section 1-40-106(1), C.R.S. or which has had a title set. This includes
               constitutional amendments or statutes initiated by citizen petition.
           •   A local ballot issue submitted for the purpose of having a title set pursuant to
               Section 31-11-111, C.R.S. or which has had a title set pursuant to that section. This
               will cover most local ballot issues.
           •   A measure referred by the general assembly or the governing body of any political
               subdivision to the eligible electors of the state or political subdivision.
           •   A measure for the recall of any officer that has been certified for submission to
               electors.

When do the FCPA restrictions commence?

Although the FCPA does not state a date on which its restrictions commence, many judicial
decisions have held that the FCPA restrictions commence when a ballot title is set and the measure
is submitted to the voters. For local governments, this typically occurs when the governing body
adopts a resolution or ordinance calling the election and setting or “fixing” the ballot title.
However, a recent Administrative Law Judge decision held that although a board actually fixed a
ballot question when it adopted a resolution calling the election and approving the ballot question,
it had, at a prior meeting, considered the ballot question “for the purpose of having a title fixed.”
The Administrative Law Judge held that this earlier date was the date upon which the FCPA
restrictions commenced, and not the later date on which the election resolution was formally
adopted. This should be a consideration for cities and/or towns that approve ballot questions by
ordinance and consider a ballot question on first reading. It is also a consideration for governments


who may present a ballot question to its governing body for consideration and discussion prior to
its actual approval.

What are permitted activities for elected officials and employees?

The FCPA does permit certain activities by elected officials and government employees
(collectively, “Covered Officials”) including:

           •   A Covered Official may respond to unsolicited questions.
           •   A Covered Official with policy making responsibilities may spend no more than
               $50 of public moneys for letters, telephone calls, or other activities incidental to
               expressing an opinion. For example, an elected official or government manager
               may spend up to $50 to send a letter to constituents expressing her or his opinion
               on a ballot issue.
           •   Elected officials may express a personal opinion on an issue.
           •   Covered Officials may spend personal funds, make contributions, or spend personal
               time to urge electors to vote for or against a measure.
           •   A governing body may adopt a resolution supporting or opposing an issue. The
               passage of the resolution may be reported through regular, established means (other
               than paid advertising). For example, if a government regularly sends out a
               newsletter reporting the actions of the governing body at its last meeting, the
               newsletter may report that the governing body has adopted a resolution supporting
               the passage of a ballot measure.

What materials may a government distribute?

Governments may spend public moneys to distribute a factual summary of a ballot measure which
summary must include arguments both for and against the proposal. The summary shall not
contain a conclusion in favor of or against the issue. Under the case law, the summary must be
facially neutral, balanced and even-handed.

Many governments wish to distribute materials which describe the ballot measure and what it will
accomplish without including arguments for and against. While there are some judicial decisions
which conclude that such materials do not “urge” a voter to cast a vote in favor of or against a
measure, most recent decisions have determined that if such materials are too positive or negative
they do, in fact, urge the voters to cast a vote for or against a measure even if they do not say “vote
yes” or “vote no.” Governments should have such materials reviewed by legal counsel before
spending public funds to distribute such materials to voters.

How are FCPA restrictions enforced?

The FCPA provides that its limitations on spending public moneys may be enforced by the filing
of a written complaint with the Secretary of State (“Secretary”) within 180 days of the date on
which the complainant either knew or should have known of the alleged violation. The Elections
Division of the Secretary of State (“Elections Division”) conducts an initial review to determine



                                                  2


whether the complaint (i) was timely filed, (ii) specifically identifies one or more violations of
Colorado campaign finance law, and (iii) alleges sufficient facts to support a factual and legal basis
for the violations of law alleged in the compliant. The Elections Division will either make a motion
to the Deputy Secretary of State (“Deputy Secretary”) to dismiss the complaint for failure to satisfy
one of the three complaint criteria, provide the respondent an opportunity to cure any curable
violations, or conduct additional review to determine whether to file the complaint with an
administrative law judge (“ALJ”). If the Elections Division determines that the respondent failed
to cure an alleged curable deficiency, it will conduct additional review to determine whether to file
the compliant with an ALJ. After conducting additional review of any non-dismissed complaint,
the Elections Division will either make a motion to the Deputy Secretary to dismiss the complaint
or it will refer the complaint to an ALJ. An ALJ may impose any appropriate order, sanction or
relief and may impose a civil penalty of at least double and up to five times the amount contributed.
In a recent case, an ALJ fined a county commissioner $1,000 personally for a violation of the
FCPA.

A government may seek guidance on the application of the FCPA by requesting that the Secretary
issue an advisory opinion regarding the government’s specific activity. The Secretary may issue
an opinion, at the Secretary’s discretion, and the government may rely on the Secretary’s advisory
opinion as an affirmative defense to any complaint that is filed with the Secretary.

However, the FCPA requires any complaint arising out of a municipal campaign finance matter to
be exclusively filed with the clerk of the applicable municipality. “Municipal campaign finance
matter” is defined to include any campaign finance matter exclusively related to a municipal
campaign, including a municipal ballot issue or ballot question. Complaints filed with the clerk of
the applicable municipality must be filed in conformity with local campaign finance enforcement
regulations. Therefore, each municipality should consider adopting an ordinance or resolution
setting forth the enforcement procedures for municipal campaign finance matters that must be filed
with the clerk.

May a government spend money to advocate for or against a measure if the FCPA does not
apply?

As noted previously, the FCPA restrictions do not apply to all ballot measure elections. However,
courts in Colorado and elsewhere have held that the use of public funds must reflect a balanced
portrayal of the ballot measure.

Conclusion

A government should consider periodic training of elected officials and employees to assure that
there are not violations of the FCPA in connection with ballot measures submitted by the
government or by the state or other local governments. Not only is there the potential for the
government to be subject to a civil penalty or other sanctions but government officials and
employees may be personally liable for civil penalties. It is also sometimes the case that the
negative press resulting from the filing of a complaint alleging an FCPA violation may influence
the results of the election regardless of the ultimate disposition of the complaint.




                                                  3
