Town of
Colorado

Board of Trustees
Regular Meeting
Record of Proceedings (Amended)
Thursday, August 20, 2026, 6 p.m.

1. Call to Order & Pledge of Allegiance: Mayor Hart called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance at 6:03pm.

2. Roll Call: Mayor Greg Hart, Mayor Pro Tem James Atkinson, Trustees Steve Anderson, Cordell
Chapman, Justin Hoffbauer, Mick Murray, and Mary Steiner were in attendance.

Let it be shown for the record that Interim Town Administrator (ITA) Carl Holm, Deputy Town
Administrator (DA) Jared Burson, Finance Director (FD) Tammera Francis, Chief of Police Dan Sanders,
Town Attorney Bo Nerlin via Zoom, Town Clerk (TC) Brooke Wood via Zoom, and Deputy Town Clerk
(DC) Amy Alfaro were also in attendance.

3. Agenda Approval

Motion: Mayor Hart moved to amend the agenda to remove agenda item 8: Public Hearing; Special
Events Permits (GMAEC) and agenda item 9: Public Hearing; Special Events Permit (Historical Society).
Vote: Without objection, motion passed unanimously (7-0).

WORK SESSION ITEMS

4. Board Training: Good Governance and Meeting Procedures
Nick Cotton-Baez, Representative from CIRSA, gave a PowerPoint presentation.

This item relates to a work session; therefore, minutes were not taken.
Mayor Hart called a recess at 7:40pm and reconvened the meeting at 7:50pm.
5. Delta County Land Use Code (LUC)
ITA Holm gave a verbal presentation with Mr. Tom Kay, former county planning commissioner during the
original Delta County Land Use Code implementation.
This item relates to a work session; therefore, minutes were not taken.
REGULAR MEETING ITEMS
6. Public Comment Period

e John Steighner: Stated he had been informed that money that goes into the water fund stays in
the water fund. He questioned indirect costs and the fact that it accounts for 20% of the base

BOARD OF TRUSTEES REGULAR MEETING 08/20/2026


water rate. He questioned what actual expenses are paid for out of the water fund and stated he
submitted a CORA request for this information.

e Steve Pierce: He would like to propose a ballot issue relative to residents paying for the
Northridge water line and the costs associated with the project since it took place outside of town
and all residents are paying towards the replacement costs.

e Tom Mathis: Stated he visited with the Town’s Building Official to report code violations
regarding the installation of rock veneer on a residential home.

7. Consent Agenda
Motion: Mayor Hart moved to remove Consent Agenda items d, e, f, and g for discussion immediately
following the consent agenda.

Without objection, the remaining Consent Agenda items consisting of the Record of Proceedings from
August 6, 2026, Regular Meeting, the July 2026 Financial Statements, and the July 2026 disbursements
were unanimously approved.

8. Sidewalk Service Lease Agreement Discussion

The Board voiced concerns on the leases and the ADA compliance standards for the sidewalks. DTA
Burson gave a verbal update and presented several PDF’s illustrating updated site plans. ITA Holm
explained that that the site plan illustrates the area they can use but the language added into all of the
agreements places the burden of ADA compliance onto the lessee.

Motion: Trustee Hoffbauer moved to approve the following items:
e Lease Agreement; Renewing a Sidewalk Service Lease Agreement for DRM Holdings, LTD (dba

Sips on Main).

e Approve Lease Agreement; Renewing a Sidewalk Service Lease Agreement for Booz Brothers
LLC (dba The Pondy).

e Approve Lease Agreement; Accepting a Sidewalk Service Lease Agreement for Cathy Timmer
(dba Cat’s on Main).

e Approve Lease Agreement; Accepting a Sidewalk Lease Agreement with Grand Mesa Arts
Center, Inc. (dba Grand Mesa Arts & Events Center) for a poetry stand.
Trustee Anderson seconded the motion.

Vote: Voice vote. Trustee Anderson, Trustee Chapman, Trustee Hoffbauer, Trustee Murray, Trustee
Steiner, and Mayor Hart voted “aye,” Mayor Pro Tem Atkinson voted “nay,” motion passed 6-1.

9. Data Center Moratorium
Mayor Hart introduced the item stating that he supports the definitions of data centers in this ordinance.

Motion: Trustee Anderson moved to adopt Ordinance 2926-062026-07: establishing a moratorium on
data centers in all zoning designations within the Town of Cedaredge.
Trustee Hoffbauer seconded the motion.

Vote: Trustee Anderson, Trustee Chapman, Trustee Hoffbauer, Trustee Murray, Trustee Steiner, and
Mayor Hart voted “aye,” Mayor Pro Tem Atkinson voted “nay,” motion passed by a six to one majority.

Record of Proceedings amended on 09/17/2026 after Board approval on 09/03/26 to change
ordinance numbering to reflect the correct numbering: 2026-07.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES REGULAR MEETING 08/20/2026


10. Region 10; Senior Meals Program MOU
Mayor Hart introduced the item noting why the program was moving from Stolte Shed.

Motion: Trustee Anderson moved to adopt the Memorandum of Understanding for a senior meals
program at the Cedaredge Civic Center.
Trustee Murray seconded the motion.

Vote: All voted “aye,” no one voted “nay,” motion passed unanimously (7-0).

11. 2026 General Election

ITA Holm gave a PowerPoint presentation illustrating different language options and noting that a final
decision for the language was needed before 9/4. Meanwhile the IGA needs to be submitted by 8/25
meaning it would need to be approved tonight.

Motion: Trustee Anderson moved to approve Resolution 25-2026 Submitting to the Electorate of the Town
of Cedaredge at the November 3, 2026, Coordinated Election, a Certain Question Authorizing the Increase of
Sales and Use Taxes for the Purposes Described in the Ballot Question excluding language referring to
percentages.

Mayor Pro Tem Atkinson seconded the motion.

Trustee Anderson withdrew his motion and Mayor Pro Tem Atkinson withdrew his second.

The Board directed Staff to create resolutions to bring back at the September 3, 2026, Regular Meeting
with three options:

e Percentages; 30% Roads, 25% Recreation, 30% Public Safety, 15% Economic Development

e No percentages

e Minimum/Range Percentages with defined categories.
In addition, it was requested that there be titles for each category.

Motion: Trustee Murray moved to approve the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with Delta County
(Clerk and Recorder) specifying terms and procedures for the conduct of the General Election which is
scheduled for November 3, 2026.

Trustee Anderson seconded the motion.

Vote: All voted “aye,” no one voted “nay” motion passed unanimously (7-0).

12. Liaison Reports

e Golf Course Advisory Board Meeting
o Mayor Pro Tem Atkinson gave a verbal update of the overall meeting.
o Trustee Hoffbauer provided an update on the merchandise for the Pro Shop.

¢ Town Administrator Recruitment
o Trustee Hoffbauer noted that the recruitment period closes 9/8. Currently, three

applications have been submitted.

e Water Committee

o Trustee Anderson and Trustee Chapman gave verbal updates.

13. Trustee Comments

e Trustee Anderson stated the Region 10 pamphlet gave a very specific reference to percentages for
budgets.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES REGULAR MEETING 08/20/2026


e Trustee Anderson requested to have the Governance Plan and Agenda Prep items on the agenda at
the next meeting.
Trustee Murray requested information regarding Buckhorn Engineering.
Mayor Pro Tem Atkinson requested information regarding water usage, conservation levels, and
drought rates.

e Trustee Chapman stated that the Asset Management needs to proceed to make sure it is
completed.

14, Adjournment
Mayor Hart adjourned the meeting at 9:54pm.

Respectfully subnf{tted,

Brooke Wood, Town Clerk

BOARD OF TRUSTEES REGULAR MEETING 08/20/2026
