                                       CITY OF WOODLAND PARK NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

public Hearing on Ordinance No. 1525, Series 2026, will be held on July 16, 2026 at 6:00pm. The aforesaid Ordinance was posted on the City's
website June 19, 2026 prior to the City Council meeting, passed on first reading June 18, 2026 ordered published, as required by Section 7.6 of
the Charter of the City of Woodland Park.

                                   CITY OF WOODLAND PARK, COLORADO
                                           ORDINANCE NO. 1525
                                               (Series 2026)

 AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL FOR THE CITY OF WOODLAND PARK,
  COLORADO IMPOSING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON THE SUBMISSION,
   ACCEPTANCE, PROCESSING, AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS FOR THE
            ESTABLISHMENT OF DATA CENTERS IN THE CITY

        WHEREAS, the City of Woodland Park, Colorado (City) has been duly organized and is
validly existing as a Home Rule City under Article XX, Section 6 of the Colorado Constitution
and the City Charter;

        WHEREAS, pursuant to C.R.S. § 31-15-401, the City, by and through its City Council
(Council), possesses the authority to adopt laws and ordinances within its police power in
furtherance of the public health, safety, and welfare; and

        WHEREAS, C.R.S. § 29-20-101, et seq., provides the City with the broad authority to
plan for and regulate the use of land to best protect and promote the health, safety, and general
welfare of present and future inhabitants of the City, to guide future growth, development, and
distribution of land uses within the City, and to issue a temporary moratorium when necessary on
the acceptance of certain land use applications while engaging in a comprehensive analysis to
determine appropriate and necessary amendments to its Land Use Code as it relates to a particular
use within the City; and

        WHEREAS, local governments and states across the nation are working to address the
swift expansion of Data Centers, and similar computing infrastructure, which often require power
requirements akin to those of small urban centers; and

        WHEREAS, while the City has responsibly managed its energy, fiber, and water
consumption to handle incremental growth, Data Centers could pose a disproportionate impact on
the City’s long-term resource management capabilities; and

        WHEREAS, the City does not currently have comprehensive and specific local zoning,
land use, and water management laws or regulations that adequately address Data Centers,
particularly standalone Data Centers which require extensive electric and water capacity; and

       WHEREAS, there is interest and concern on the part of City Council, City Staff, and City
Residents related to the possible development of Data Centers within the City; and

        WHEREAS, because of the possible impacts of Data Centers on the City’s community and
infrastructure, reasonable regulations on new or expanded Data Centers are necessary for the
City’s sustainability, resource management, resiliency, and quality of life; and

      WHEREAS, the Colorado General Assembly may consider legislation regarding statewide
Data Centers regulations during the 2027 legislative session that may impact local regulation,
which impact will not be known until after the legislation is passed; and

        WHEREAS, based on the information presented and provided, Council determined that it
is necessary to temporarily suspend acceptance of applications for Data Centers while appropriate
regulations, standards, and definitions can be developed through a comprehensive public process;
and

        WHEREAS, the 12-month temporary moratorium imposed by this Ordinance is intended
to prevent the establishment and operation of Data Centers on a temporary basis in order to allow
the City to analyze and apply the state of applicable law and regulations surrounding Data Centers,
in order to survey current Data Centers throughout the state and nation, to draft amendments to the
City’s Municipal Code including, but not limited to, the City’s Zoning Code and regulations
related to Water and Wastewater therein, to consider and draft other amendments and regulations
as deemed necessary to monitor and respond to any legislative changes in the 2027 Colorado State
Legislative Session, to provide opportunity for public comment, and to ensure prospective owners,
developers, and operators of Data Centers are able to make business and investment decisions with
sufficient knowledge of local ordinances surrounding Data Centers in addition to promoting the
health, safety, and general welfare of the City of Woodland Park’s community; and

      WHEREAS, the 12-month temporary moratorium imposed by this Ordinance prevents the
submission, acceptance, processing, and approval of applications for siting a Data Center in the
City.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
WOODLAND PARK, COLORADO, AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1.     The foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as conclusions, facts, determinations,
               and findings by City Council.

Section 2.     Data Center Defined. For the purposes of this Ordinance, a “Data Center” is
               defined as any one of the following:

               (a) A stand-alone facility created for the sole or primary purpose of computing
                   and/or data storage and which primarily contains computing components and
                   necessary appurtenances to accomplish the task of computing;

               (b) Any facility, whether a primary use or an accessory use to an existing use, which
                   is created for the purpose of computing and/or data storage and has a demand
                   of 1 megawatt (MW) of electrical capacity or greater; or

               (c) Any facility which is created for the purpose of computing and/or data storage
                   and which has a significant impact on water or wastewater resources as
                   determined by the reasonable discretion of the City Manager or their designee.
Section 3.   Imposition of Temporary Moratorium. A temporary moratorium in the amount
             of 12 months shall become effective 7 days after publication following final
             passage of this Ordinance as follows:

             (a) Restrictions. During the effective term of this Ordinance, there shall be no
                 submission, acceptance, processing, review, public hearing, approval, or siting
                 of a Data Center within the City limits of the City of Woodland Park. A Data
                 Center shall not be considered a use by right in any zoning district.

             (b) Effective Date and Termination. This temporary moratorium shall be in effect
                 7 days after publication following final passage of this Ordinance and shall
                 terminate on the Insert Date day of Insert Month, 2027 unless terminated at an
                 earlier date or extended by further Ordinance of the Woodland Park City
                 Council.

Section 4.   Existing Uses Excluded. Nothing in this Ordinance shall affect the continued
             operation of existing Data Centers. However, the expansion of existing uses is
             subject to the temporary moratorium herein.

Section 5.   Severability. The provisions of this ordinance are severable and the invalidity
             of any section, phrase, clause, or portion of the ordinance as determined by a
             court of competent jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
             the remainder of the ordinance.

Section 6.   Conflicts Repealed. All ordinances, resolutions, codes, or parts thereof in conflict
             with this Ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict only.

Section 7.   The codifier of the City’s Municipal Code, Municipal Code Corporation, is hereby
             authorized to make such numerical and formatting changes as may be necessary to
             incorporate the provisions of this Ordinance within the Woodland Park Municipal
             Code.

PASSED BY CITY COUNCIL ON SECOND AND FINAL READING FOLLOWING PUBLIC
HEARING THIS ___ DAY OF ___________, 2026.

                                                   City of Woodland Park, Colorado


                                                   ___________________________
                                                   George Jones, Mayor

ATTEST:

___________________________
City Clerk Monica Mendoza
