PPLAC ITEM #9


                                                   DRAFT
                                             BILL NO. 2024-03__
                                   NYE COUNTY ORDINANCE NO. ____
                         SUMMARY: A Bill proposing to Repeal Nye County Code Title 17, Comprehensive Land
                         Use Planning and Zoning, Chapter 17.10 entitled “Special Use Permits; Aboveground
                         Utility Projects” and Replacing with Nye County Code Title 17, Comprehensive Land Use
                         Planning and Zoning, Chapter 17.10 entitled “Special Use Permits”; 17.10.010 Purpose
                         And Intent; 17.10.20 Permit For Construction Of An Aboveground Utility Project Located
                         In A Master Plan Designated Utility Corridor; 17.30 Special Use Permit For Renewable
                         Energy Generation Facility, Aboveground Transmission Lines (Not Located Within An
                         Established Utility Corridor), Battery Energy Storage, Electrical Substation And Gen-Tie
                         Connections; 17.04.040 Requirement To Obtain A Special Use Permit; 17.10.045 Solar
                         Energy Projects; 17.10.050 Application Of Ordinance; 17.10.060 Definitions; 17.10.070
                         Energy Conservation System Distinctions; 17.10.080 Designation Of Use In Districts In
                         The Pahrump Regional Planning District 17.10.090 Approval Process; 17.10.100
                         Preliminary Development Plan Approval; 17.10.110 Final Development Plan Approval;
                         17.10.120 Building Permits And Commencement Of Construction; 17.10.130 Construction
                         Standard; 17.10.140 Development Standards; 17.10.050 Setbacks And Height Restrictions;
                         17.10.160 Post-Construction And Continued Maintenance; 17.10.170 Post Construction
                         Modifications; 17.10.180 No Preemption; 17.10.200 Wind Energy Projects; 17.10.210
                         Application Of Ordinance; 17.10.220 Definitions; 17.10.230 Energy Conversion System
                         Distinctions; 17.10.240 Designation Of Use In Districts In The Pahrump Regional
                         Planning District 17.10.250 Approval Process; 17.10.260 Preliminary Development Plan
                         Approval; 17.10.270 Final Development Plan Approval; 17.10.280 Building Permits And
                         Commencement Of Construction; 17.10.290 Construction Standards; 17.10.300
                         Development Standards; 17.10.310 Setbacks And Height Restrictions; 17.10.320 Post-
                         Construction And Continued Maintenance; 17.10.330 Post-Construction Modifications;
                         17.10.340 No Preemption; 17.10.350 Enforcement And Penalties; and providing for the
                         severability, constitutionality, and effective date thereof; and other matters properly
                         relating thereto.
     TITLE: A BILL PROPOSING TO REPEAL NYE COUNTY CODE TITLE 17, COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
     PLANNING AND ZONING, CHAPTER 17.10 ENTITLED “SPECIAL USE PERMITS; ABOVEGROUND
     UTILITY PROJECTS” AND REPLACING WITH NYE COUNTY CODE TITLE 17, COMPREHENSIVE LAND
     USE PLANNING AND ZONING, CHAPTER 17.10 ENTITLED “SPECIAL USE PERMITS”; 17.10.010
     PURPOSE AND INTENT; 17.10.20 PERMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION OF AN ABOVEGROUND UTILITY
     PROJECT LOCATED IN A MASTER PLAN DESIGNATED UTILITY CORRIDOR; 17.30 SPECIAL USE
     PERMIT FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATION FACILITY, ABOVEGROUND TRANSMISSION LINES
     (NOT LOCATED WITHIN AN ESTABLISHED UTILITY CORRIDOR), BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE,
     ELECTRICAL SUBSTATION AND GEN-TIE CONNECTIONS; 17.04.040 REQUIREMENT TO OBTAIN A
     SPECIAL USE PERMIT; 17.10.045 SOLAR ENERGY PROJECTS; 17.10.050 APPLICATION OF ORDINANCE;
     17.10.060 DEFINITIONS; 17.10.070 ENERGY CONSERVATION SYSTEM DISTINCTIONS; 17.10.080
     DESIGNATION OF USE IN DISTRICTS IN THE PAHRUMP REGIONAL PLANNING DISTRICT 17.10.090
     APPROVAL PROCESS; 17.10.100 PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL; 17.10.110 FINAL
     DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL; 17.10.120 BUILDING PERMITS AND COMMENCEMENT OF
     CONSTRUCTION; 17.10.130 CONSTRUCTION STANDARD; 17.10.140 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS;
     17.10.050 SETBACKS AND HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS; 17.10.160 POST-CONSTRUCTION AND CONTINUED
     MAINTENANCE; 17.10.170 POST CONSTRUCTION MODIFICATIONS; 17.10.180 NO PREEMPTION;
     17.10.200 WIND ENERGY PROJECTS; 17.10.210 APPLICATION OF ORDINANCE; 17.10.220 DEFINITIONS;
     17.10.230 ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM DISTINCTIONS; 17.10.240 DESIGNATION OF USE IN
     DISTRICTS IN THE PAHRUMP REGIONAL PLANNING DISTRICT 17.10.250 APPROVAL PROCESS;
     17.10.260 PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL; 17.10.270 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
     APPROVAL; 17.10.280 BUILDING PERMITS AND COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION; 17.10.290

                                                  Page 1 of 33
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS; 17.10.300 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; 17.10.310 SETBACKS AND
HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS; 17.10.320 POST-CONSTRUCTION AND CONTINUED MAINTENANCE; 17.10.330
POST-CONSTRUCTION MODIFICATIONS; 17.10.340 NO PREEMPTION; 17.10.350 ENFORCEMENT AND
PENALTIES;    AND PROVIDING FOR THE SEVERABILITY, CONSTITUTIONALITY, AND EFFECTIVE
DATE THEREOF; AND OTHER MATTERS PROPERLY RELATING THERETO.
        WHEREAS, pursuant to NRS 244.119, the Nye                     Board of County Commissioners (Board) is
authorized to amend the Nye County Code; and
        WHEREAS, pursuant to NRS 278.020, for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, and the general
welfare of the residents of Nye County, the Board of County Commissioners is authorized and empowered to
regulate and restrict the improvement of land and to control the location and soundness of structures; and
       WHEREAS, the generation of electricity from wind, storage and solar resources must be practicality located
where sufficient wind and solar resources exist;
        WHEREAS, wind, storage and solar energy projects may be undertaken in differing sizes ranging from large
scale projects intending to deliver wholesale electricity to the grid (commercial), to smaller installations on one or
more contiguous parcels and intended to deliver electricity for use onsite (non-commercial), to installations on a single
parcel designed to generate supplemental electricity, for use or credit, for the parcel on which it is sited (private);
       WHEREAS, the size of the generation project and intended use of the electricity generated results in differing
burdens and/or benefits on Nye County and thus require differing approval and permitting;
      WHEREAS, development of wind energy projects and solar energy projects may result in substantial
economic investment in Nye County to the benefit of Nye County and its residents through lease payments, tax
payments, licensing fees and temporary and permanent employment opportunities;
       WHEREAS, construction of a commercial scale wind energy or solar energy project involves the use of
heavy equipment and the transport of heavy loads that have the potential of damaging public and private infrastructure
of Nye County, including roads, bridges, and drainage structures and for disruption on public roads;
         WHEREAS, the failure to complete a commercial wind or solar project after the commencement of
construction, the failure to continue in operation, and/or the failure to remove the wind energy or solar energy facility
after the end of its useful life create significant risks of damage to the value of the property of adjacent landowners,
the environment, and the safety and security of persons in Nye County;
        WHEREAS, the adoption of an ordinance regulating the location, construction, and operation of wind and
solar projects is necessary and appropriate to achieve and secure the benefits of these projects and to avoid and/or
minimize the risks, dangers, and inconvenience to health, safety, and general welfare of Nye County;
        WHEREAS, the adoption of the following wind energy and solar energy ordinance is necessary to achieve
the goals set forth in the Comprehensive Plan for Nye County;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of County Commissioners of Nye County that the
following standards are required for the approval and permitting of a solar and wind energy project in Nye County,
Nevada.
NYE COUNTY CODE TITLE 17.10 IS HEREBY AMENDED AS FOLLOWS, deletions shown in strike-
through red font, and additions and modifications shown in underscore blue font:
Chapter 17.10 SPECIAL USE PERMITS; RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATION FACILITIES; ABOVE
GROUND ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION LINES (NOT LOCATED WITHIN AN ESTABLISHED
UTILITY CORRIDOR; BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS; GEN-TIE CONNECTIONS


17.10.10 DEFINITIONS
ACRONYM GUIDE-
BOCC – Nye County Board of County Commissioners
EMS – Emergency Management Services

                                                       Page 2 of 33
NCNRD – Nye County Natural Resource Department
NCDEM – Nye County Department of Emergency Management
OHV – Off Highway Vehicle
PRPC -    Pahrump Regional Planning Commission
PRPD – Pahrump Regional Planning District
SECS -    Solar Energy Conversion System
SUP – Special Use Permit
WDGB – Water District Governing Board
WECS - Wind Energy Conversion System
ABOVE GROUND TRANSMISSION LINE: An overhead power line is a structure used in electric power
transmission and distribution to transmit electrical energy along large distances. It consists of one (1) or more
conductors (commonly multiples of three (3)) suspended by towers or poles.
AMBIENT BASELINE SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: The L90 A-weighted sound pressure emissions level (the
level of sound exceeded 90% of the time) for a project area prior to construction as determined by a baseline acoustics
emissions study.
APPLICANT: When used in connection with or in respect of a project, shall mean the person(s) and/or entity(s) which
is/are the developer and/or owner and/or operator of the project, and. the term shall include all successors and assigns
of the initial Applicant. When used in this Ordinance to affix liability or for a binding agreement or obligation,
Applicant shall include the Owner or Operator of the project that intends to be legally liable or so bound.
BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM: Battery energy storage systems (BESS), are devices that enable energy
to be stored and then released when the power is needed.
BOCC: The Nye County Board of County Commissioners.
CO-APPLICANT: When used in connection with or in respect of a renewable energy project, shall mean a person or
entity which executes an application for a project solely because of an ownership interest in real property to be used
in connection with the project. The Co- Applicant requirement is not applicable to those lands owned or managed by
the Federal government.
COLLECTOR: Any power line that carries electrical power from one or more solar panels or transformers or
converters associated with solar panels to the point of interconnection with the electrical power grid, in the case of
interconnection with the high voltage transmission systems the point of interconnection shall be the substation serving
the project.
COUNTY: Nye County, Nevada.
CRITICAL WIND SPEED: The wind speed at which WECS turbine sound pressure levels are at greatest variance
with Ambient Baseline Sound Pressure Level.
DECOMMISSIONING PLAN: With regards to a project shall have the meaning and include the requirements set
forth at Nye County Code Sections 17.10.110 (E) and (H) and 17.10.160.
DECOMMISSIONING SECURITY: With regards to a project shall have the meaning and meet the requirements as
set forth at Nye County Code Sections 17.10.110 (E) and (H) and 17.10.160.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written agreement, adopted pursuant to state statutes and the provisions of this
chapter, for a specified period of time between the county and any person having a legal or equitable interest in real
property for the purpose of developing such property in accordance with specified laws, ordinances, codes,
resolutions, rules, regulations and plans adopted by the BOCC; and in effect at the time such agreement is executed,
in return for additional development requirements that may include, but are not limited to, provision of affordable
housing, design standards, and on and off site/off tract infrastructure and other improvements and dedications, and
which shall be approved by the BOCC and/or other reciprocal obligations from the county.
DISTAL SOLAR PANEL: Means each solar panel closest to an adjoining non-participating property line.

                                                      Page 3 of 33
DRAINAGE PLAN: With regards to a project shall mean the storm water management plan approved by Nye County
Public Works for the project as required by Nye County Code Section 17.10.110 (C).
ELECTRICAL SUB-STATION: Substations contain the specialist equipment that allows the voltage of electricity
to be transformed (or 'switched'). The voltage is stepped up or down through pieces of equipment called transformers,
which sit within a substation's site.
GEN-TIE: These are facilities that connect the original source of electric power (generation) to the transmission
system.
NON-PARTICIPATING: Property or the property-owner of land adjacent to a SECS project that is not participating
in the project as a Co-Applicant.
NON-RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATION FACILITY: Coal, natural gas, oil, propane or any other fossil fuel,
or nuclear energy.
OPERATOR: When used in connection with or in respect of a project means any person or entity which has the
primary involvement with or responsibility for the use, operation, or maintenance of all or a portion of a project.
OWNER: When used in connection with or in respect of a project shall mean any person or entity and his, her, or its
assigns and successors in interest which has any ownership interest in any or all of the necessary devises to convert
solar energy into electricity. The term “Owner” does not include any person or entity whose ownership interest in a
SECS is limited to an interest in real property which is used in a SECS.
PROJECT: Means Any Renewable Energy Generation Facility, Above Ground Transmission Lines (not located
within an established utility corridor), Battery Energy Storage, Electrical Substation and Gen-Tie Connections
RENEWABLE ENERGY: Means a source of energy that occurs naturally or is regenerated naturally, including,
without limitation:
 (a) Biomass;
 (b) Fuel cells;
 (c) Geothermal energy;
 (d) Solar energy;
 (e) Waterpower; and
 (f) Wind; and
 (g) Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS)
The term does not include coal, natural gas, oil, propane or any other fossil fuel, or nuclear energy.
RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATION FACILITY: Means a project involving an electric generating facility or
system that uses renewable energy as its primary source of energy to generate electricity. The term does not include
a project involving an electric generating facility or system that uses nuclear energy, in whole or in part, to generate
electricity.
RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECT: Means the development, construction, deployment, alteration or repair of any
project, technology, product, service, function, or measure that generates electric power from renewable energy.
SAFETY AND SECURITY PLAN: The SECS project site safety and security plan as provided by Nye County Code
Section 17.10.110(D).
SCHOOL: means any public, private, or parochial educational facility for students from K-12 registered with the
State of Nevada and does not include home schools.
SECS NET SALVAGE VALUE: The net value of the all saleable parts and commodities which make up the SECS
whether sold as used parts or on a commodity/scrap basis or any combination thereof (whichever is greater) after
deducting all estimated costs and expenses of dismantling, removal, and transportation and all costs and expenses of
sale (including but not limited to all commissions and fees) and the amount necessary to pay and satisfy all liens,



                                                      Page 4 of 33
security interests, and other encumbrances attaching to the SECS. The commodity/scrap value shall be based on the
prior five (5) years average scrap value of the commodity.
SOLAR ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (SECS): The generating equipment and all ancillary equipment used
in the production of electrical energy from solar resources, but not including electrical transmission facilities to
transmit energy generated by a SECS from the SECS project site to the point of interconnection
TOWN: The area within the territorial limits of any unincorporated town within Nye County.
TOWN BOARD: The Town Board form of government established pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 269.016
through 269.022.
TRANSPORTATION PLAN: The detailed route plan used for construction and maintenance by a project as required
in Nye County Code Section 17.10.120(B).
VIEW SHED AREA: Means the areas of visual impact of a project as set forth in Section Nye County Code
17.10.110(F).


17.10.020          PURPOSE AND INTENT
The intent of this chapter is to establish the land use and permitting requirements applicable to all Renewable Energy
Generation Facilities, Above Ground Transmission Lines (not located within an established utility corridor), Battery
Energy Storage, Electrical Substation and Gen-Tie Connections, as authorized by Nevada state law for all areas within
County, including those areas within the Pahrump Regional Planning District.
17.10.030          PERMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION OF A SPECIAL UTILITY PROJECT NOT LOCATED
                   IN A MASTER PLAN DESIGNATED UTILITY CORRIDOR:
Any Renewable Energy Generation Facility, Above Ground Transmission Lines (not located within an established
utility corridor), Battery Energy Storage, Electrical Substation and Gen-Tie Connections, which is planned to be
located within County requires an approval of a Special Use Permit and a Development Agreement with County.
17.10.040        SPECIAL UTILITY PERMIT FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATION FACILITY,
                 ABOVE GROUND TRANSMISSION LINES (NOT LOCATED WITHIN AN ESTABLISHED
                 UTILITY CORRIDOR), BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE, ELECTRICAL SUBSTATION AND
                 GEN-TIE CONNECTIONS
A. Special Use Permit for Construction of a Renewable Energy Generation Facility, Above Ground Transmission
   Lines (not located within an established utility corridor), Battery Energy Storage, Electrical Substation and Gen-
   Tie Connections:
    1. A Special Use Permit shall be required for any Renewable Energy Generation Facility, Above Ground
       Transmission Lines (not located within an established utility corridor), Battery Energy Storage, Electrical
       Substation and Gen-Tie Connections. In addition to the general criteria for approving the Special Use Permit,
       no Special Use Permit application shall be approved unless the Applicant establishes that the proposed
       Renewable Energy Generation Facility, Above Ground Transmission Lines (not located within an established
       utility corridor), Battery Energy Storage, Electrical Substation and Gen-Tie Connections meet the following
       additional criteria:
            a.    Proposed developments must not conflict with any existing or planned infrastructure or utility projects;
            b.    Proximity of the proposed developments or corridors to any school, hospital, or urban residential area
                  with a dwelling density greater than two (2) units per gross acre shall be taken into consideration and
                  appropriate setbacks shall be applied.
17.10.050          REQUIREMENT TO OBTAIN A SPECIAL USE PERMIT
Any Renewable Energy Generation Facility, Above Ground Transmission Lines (not located within a established
utility corridor), Battery Energy Storage, Electrical Substation and Gen-Tie Connections shall require the approval
and be conducted in compliance with the terms and conditions of a Special Use Permit.
A. Administration and Enforcement:

                                                        Page 5 of 33
   1. Designation of Planning Authority: For purposes of the administration of Special Use Permits as provided for
       in this chapter, the BOCC shall be designated as the planning authority for all areas in County, to include
       those areas which may be located within a planning district or under the authority of a planning commission.
   2. Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and is subject to a
       fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or imprisonment in the County jail for a period
       not to exceed six (6) months. Any act that is prohibited, or the result from the failure to perform required acts,
       shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Any person is guilty of a separate offense for each and every day
       during any portion of which any violation of this chapter is committed or continued.
   3. Abatement Proceedings: In Addition to any penalties that may be imposed, any use of property, or the
       establishment of any building, structure or use contrary to the provisions of this chapter or in violation of any
       condition attached to the granting of a Special Use Permit, County may commence proceedings for the
       abatement in accordance with this code or state law or may pursue other remedies as provided by law.
   4. Revocation of Special Use Permit: Failure to abide by and faithfully comply with the provisions of this chapter
       with respect to use, development standards, or maintenance requirements, with any other requirement of this
       code, with any applicable requirement of the Nevada Revised Statutes or Nevada Administrative Code, or
       with any and all conditions attached to the granting of any land use application hereunder is unlawful and a
       public nuisance, and shall constitute grounds for the revocation of the same, or any permit or license issued
       in conjunction with the application.
           a. Upon discovery of such a violation, County may commence proceedings for the revocation thereof in
               accordance with applicable provisions of this code or may pursue other remedies as provided by law.
               If the BOCC determines that there is sufficient cause to revoke the application or permit, a public
               hearing shall be scheduled before the BOCC, at which time the Owner or other interested party may
               show cause as to why the permit should or should not be revoked. If the BOCC revokes the permit, it
               shall specify for the record the reasons for its action.
           b. The revocation of a business license, or the revocation of permits, which are no longer appealable, to
               conduct a use or the failure to obtain an approved Site Development Plan shall cause any SUP to
               become invalid with the hearing specified in subsection A (4)(a) of this section.
  5. Term of Special Use Permit: If a project does not commence construction within a five (5) year period after
      the SUP is approved by the BOCC the SUP is deemed expired, unless a further extension is mutually agreed
      upon by the Applicant and BOCC. Any SUP issued herein shall remain in effect only for a period of one (1)
      year from the date of issuance. The SUP granted herein is restricted to the building and process as described
      in the application and approved by the BOCC, any expansion or modifications will require an amendment to
      the SUP. One (1) year from the date of issuance, and each year following until construction commences,
      projects that receive SUP approval are required to pay a renewal fee of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) and
      submit application no later than 30 days prior to expiration for annual renewal that consists of a detailed
      compliance report for review demonstrating that the project conforms to all SUP conditions of approval and
      this chapter. The SUP renewal is to be reviewed and acted upon administratively by the planning director
      within thirty (30) days of the renewal submission and shall be granted so long as the Applicant demonstrates
      satisfaction of the conditions and adherence to this chapter.

  6. Transferability of Special Use Permit: Any SUP approved by the BOCC shall be specific to the Renewable
     Energy Generation Facility, Above Ground Transmission Lines (not located within an established utility
     corridor), Battery Energy Storage, Electrical Substation and Gen-Tie Connection owner as specified on the
     permit. Any change in ownership of the aboveground utility project that is approved by the BOCC shall be
     transferrable to a new owner by application to the planning department and approval from the BOCC, and the
     Special Use Permit will be valid for the same terms as the original Special Use Permit and shall be subject to
     the same use at the same location. BOCC approval may not be unreasonably withheld, delayed, or conditioned,
     except approval will be conditioned upon the assignor or successor satisfying the financial criteria set forth in
     the Development Agreement and section 17.10.110(G) ".

  7. Cumulative Remedies: All remedies provided herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive.
Application Process:


                                                      Page 6 of 33
 1. Federally Owned Land: If the project is on federally owned land, prior to submitting the application for the
    Special Use Permit for construction of a project, and at the beginning of the federal review and permit
    application process, the Applicant must have a pre-submittal meeting with County staff to discuss the project
    and the application. The Applicant then shall submit, as the application, the appropriate documents related to
    the environmental review by state and federal land management agencies. If the Applicant is required to apply
    for a permit to construct under the utility environmental protection act from the public utilities commission of
    Nevada, then the Applicant's service of the permit to construct application to the County, pursuant to Nevada
    Revised Statutes 704.870(4), shall constitute the environmental review documents that make up the
    application.
 2. Special Use Permit Fee: A Special Use Permit fee, as established by County Resolution, shall be collected for
    any application for a Special Use Permit for construction of a project.
 3. Town Boards: If the proposed location of the project is within the boundaries of a Town and outside the Town
    of Pahrump, the Applicant shall contact the applicable elected or advisory Town Board office and request an
    agenda item be placed on the Town Board's agenda to present the project and obtain a written letter from the
    Town Board in support of, or in opposition to, or acknowledgement the Applicant made a presentation for the
    proposed aboveground utility project and/or energy generation facility. Any Town Board receiving such
    request shall not be later than forty-five (45) days after receiving such request place the item on the agenda to
    hear the proposal and within fifteen (15) days after hearing the request the Town Board shall provide a written
    letter to the Applicant. The Applicant shall submit a copy of the Town Board's written letter to the Planning
    Department along with the application for a Special Use Permit. If the Town Board does not provide the letter
    within fifteen (15) days, the Applicant must provide documented evidence of effort to obtain a written letter
    from the Town Board to satisfy this section.
C. Public Hearing Notice Requirements: Upon the filing of a complete application for a Special Use Permit, the
   Planning Director shall give notice setting forth the time, place, and purpose of such hearing. Notice of such
   hearing must be mailed at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the hearing to:
    1. The Applicant;
    2. Each owner of real property, as listed on the County Assessor’s records, located within three hundred feet
       (300’) of the property in question;
    3. Any Advisory or Town Board which has been established for the affected by the governing body;
    4. If a military installation is located within three thousand feet (3,000’) of the property in question, the
       commander of the military installation;
    5. If an Indian Reservation is located within three thousand feet (3,000’) of the property in question, the Chief
       and Council of the Indian Reservation and the United States Department of the Interior Bureau of Indian
       Affairs (BIA); and
    6. The Nye County Sheriff, EMS, and Fire Department.
D. Standard Findings for Approval of a Special Use Permit: The BOCC shall determine which application submits
   a plan and proposal that meets the needs of, or otherwise benefits, the residents of Nye County. The following
   criteria shall be evaluated by the BOCC:
    1. Will be in accordance with the general objectives or with any specific objectives of the Comprehensive
       Master Plan of current adoption, and the zoning map if applicable;
    2. Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring uses;
    3. Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services, such as highways, streets, police and
       fire protection, drainage structures, refuse disposal, or schools; or that the persons or agencies responsible
       for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide adequately any such service;
    4. Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for public facilities and services and will
       not be detrimental to the economic welfare of the community; and
    5. Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials and equipment, and conditions of operation that will
       be detrimental to any persons, property, or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic,
       noise, smoke, fumes, glares, or odors. (Ord. 483, 2014)


                                                    Page 7 of 33
E. Appeals: Any person who is aggrieved by a final decision of the BOCC may appeal that decision to the District
   Court by filing a petition for judicial review within twenty-five (25) days after the date of the filing of notice of
   the decision with the Clerk of the Board.




17.10.060 APPLICATION OF ORDINANCE:
This Section applies to ground-mounted solar energy conversion systems. This Ordinance does not apply to roof-top
or integrated solar installations on buildings or facilities and all such installations remain subject to applicable building
and safety codes.
    A. (SECS-1) Solar Energy Conversion System—Tier 1
    B. (SECS-2) Solar Energy Conversion System—Tier 2
17.10.070 ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM DISTINCTIONS:
Only Photovoltaic systems may be installed in County and will require a Special Use Permit and a Development
Agreement to be entered into between the Applicant/Developer and County for all SECS-1 projects. Concentrated
Solar Power systems may not be installed in County. Acreage is measured from a perimeter fence surrounding the
total solar generation facilities including any substations, energy storage or electrical support buildings. Any solar
energy generation facilities intended to be operated as an integrated system shall be regulated according to the
aggregate total acreage. Any subsequent phase of an approved project shall meet the criteria required of the total
acreage of all phases.

     Type                               Acreage                                                Other

                  Greater than 10 acres or daily aggregate
    SECS-1                                                                Electricity sold to utility transmission lines
                  production of (1) megawatt or more per day.

                                                                          Electricity used primarily for on-site use
    SECS-2        Up to 10 acres on one or more properties                primarily behind the meter, generation for a
                                                                          single property owner


17.10.080 DESIGNATION OF USE IN DISTRICTS IN THE PRPD:
Subject to the requirements of this Section, the designated solar energy projects are permitted uses (X) or special
exception with a Special Use Permit (E) uses in the following districts. Special Use Permits or Building Permits shall
not be issued to any Applicant without the BOCC granting preliminary and final approval at public hearings.

                District                                  SEC-1                                     SEC-2

                RH-9.5                                                                                 X

                RH-4.5                                                                                 X

                  RE-2                                                                                 X

                  RE-1                                                                                 X

                   SE                                                                                  X

                 VR-20                                                                                 X


                                                        Page 8 of 33
                 NC                                                                              X

                 GC                                                                              X

                 CM                                                                              X

                  TC                                                                             X

                 CC                                                                              X

                  M                                                                              X

                 VC                                                                              X

                 BO                                                                              X

                 AO                                                                              X

                  SO                                                                             X

                 MU                                                                              X

                  LI                                      E                                      X

                  HI                                      E                                      X

                  OS                                      E                                      X

                 BR                                                                              X

                 OU                                       E                                      X

                  R                                       E

                  CF                                                                             X


17.10.090 APPROVAL PROCESS:
A. All Tier 1 projects subject to this Section shall be considered at two public hearings before the BOCC and shall
   comply with all requirements of this Title. The first hearing shall consider granting preliminary approval. The
   second hearing shall consider granting final approval. Final approval may not be granted sooner than twenty-eight
   (28) days after preliminary approval absent extraordinary circumstances proven by the Applicant to the
   satisfaction of the BOCC.
B. An application for any use designated as a Special Exception shall be heard by the BOCC prior to submission of
   a site development plan to the BOCC. Applicant may submit the preliminary development plan and the Special
   Use Permit application at the same time, however, the BOCC must take action on the Special Use Permit
   Application prior to the Public Hearing on a Preliminary Development Plan before the BOCC.
C. Following final approval, the Applicant must comply with the requirements as set forth in this Section with respect
   to receiving a Special Use Permits for the project.
D. Any Applicant seeking a variance allowed under County Code 17.10.150 (G) from any setback or height restriction
   requirement of this Section must receive that approval from the applicable Town Board, PRPC if located within
   the PRPD, or BOCC if outside PRPD with a letter of support or opposition obtained from the Town Board if

                                                     Page 9 of 33
    located within a town boundary and submit such variance recommendation for approval or denial with its final
    development plan application. Only the BOCC may approve any departure from the procedures for approval or
    any modification of final approval.
E. All information provided and gathered during a preliminary development plan review and/or a final development
   plan review may be used by the BOCC in determining whether to approve or disapprove the plan and, if approved,
   what reasonable additional restrictions or provisions shall be included in the plan in addition to those outlined
   herein.
17.10.100 PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL: A completed application for preliminary
development plan approval signed by the Applicant shall be filed with the County Planning Department. If the
Applicant is not the owner of the real property on which the project is sited, all property owners of the real property
where the project is to be located must be Co-Applicants; with the exception of projects sited on lands owned or
managed by the Federal government. The application shall include the following items submitted in both hard copy
and/or electronic format, as required by the reviewing Agency:
A. PROJECT SUMMARY. An initial project summary including a description of the project stating the approximate
   total name plate generating capacity and the name plate generating capacity of each solar panel, the total acreage
   included in the project and the GIS coordinates of the general outline of the project area, the potential equipment
   manufacturers and type of solar energy conversion system to be used, the number of solar panels, the size and
   maximum height of the solar panels, and description of substations, power inverters, maintenance structures,
   storage yards, permanent solar resource monitoring structures and equipment, BESS and other buildings that are
   a direct functional part of the project. If any part of the project includes battery storage, the types of batteries to
   be used, the manufacturer, and the type of installation shall also be included.
B. APPLICANT AND CO-APPLICANTS. A description of the Applicant, Owner and Operator and any other
   responsible party and if applicable each of their intermediate and ultimate parent companies, listing experience
   in similar projects and gross capitalization. List names, addresses, email addresses, websites and phone numbers
   of the Applicants, Owners and Operators and all Co-Applicants.
C. MAPS. A map or maps of the project site and surrounding quarter-mile radius that shows the topography (at 2-
   foot contours), political and natural features of the project site. The map shall include the individual land parcels
   by Assessors tax parcel number and clearly identify whether the property is participating in the project or not.
   The map shall also identify the zoning designations if applicable, all streets and roadways by classification,
   municipal and township boundaries, residential structures, public lands, public and private schools (including
   colleges and universities) existing utilities and transmission lines, public safety facilities, governmental
   boundaries, public recreational land, OHV trails, RS-2477 Roads, any County minor or major roads, and any
   commercial or public structure such as stores, churches, airports or landing strips. If more than one map is
   submitted, all maps shall be drawn at the same scale. All maps shall be submitted in hard copy and electronic
   format as specified by the Planning Department. public recreation land as identified on County and Nevada
   department of outdoor recreation maps, including trail maps on the Nevada off-highway vehicle program website
   off-road Nevada/off road Nevada (nv.org). alternate routes to be provided where trails are cut by section lines.
D. SITE PLAN. The Applicant shall submit a preliminary site development plan at an appropriate scale showing the
   proposed location of the project facilities; proposed access roads; substations; maintenance structures; storage
   yards; permanent solar resource measuring or monitoring installations; electrical cabling; ancillary equipment;
   and any other structures that are a direct functional part of the project. Each contiguous row of solar panels and/or
   structure should be assigned a unique identification number on the site plan. In addition, the site plan shall show:
   primary structures within one quarter mile of any project; property lines, including identification of non-
   participating adjoining properties; setback lines; public roads; County regulated drains, washes, open ditches if
   located in a public right of way; location of all above-ground utility lines; location of all existing underground
   utility lines associated with the site; recognized historic or heritage sites as noted by the Nevada Department of
   Natural Resources; floodplains; and any wetlands based upon a delineation prepared in accordance with the
   applicable U.S. Army Corps of Engineer requirements and guidelines, and the location of any other condition or
   facility regulated by any other agency having jurisdiction of activity on the site. This site plan must also be
   distributed to emergency management agencies, fire departments serving any part of the project site, the County
   Sheriff, and the chief executive body of any municipal government or Town Board whose boundary is within 10


                                                       Page 10 of 33
   miles of the project site. The site plan shall identify any public, private, or parochial school property (not
   including home schools) located within two miles of the project boundaries. “
E. COORDINATION WITH APPLICABLE AGENCIES. The Applicant shall submit a summary report identifying
   the entities the Applicant has communicated and coordinated with respect to the project. The report shall list the
   entity name, the primary contact person at the entity and contact information, the dates of coordination and list of
   documents submitted to each agency. The report shall also transmit any comments, suggestions, concerns,
   approvals, or disapprovals with respect to the project issued by the entity and/or communicated to the Applicant.
   The following entities shall be contacted:


                                                                                                          When
         Authority                        Purpose                        Type of Documentation
                                                                                                         Required

          General

   BLM (Bureau of Land             NEPA Compliance on                 Record of Decision and ROW
                                                                                                            Final
      Management)                    Federal Lands                               grant

                                 Coordinate to reduce any
   FAA (Federal Aviation
                                impacts on flight or airport           Determination of no hazard        Preliminary
     Administration)
                                       interference

                                Coordinate siting to mitigate           Any recommendations or
   DOD (Department of
                                 radar interference or any           comments received submitted to      Preliminary
    Defenses) Siting,
                                    other interference.                  lead permitting agency



                                                                     Summary memorandum of initial
  USFWS (U.S. Fish and
                                        Coordination                  survey results submitted to lead   Preliminary
    Wildlife Service)
                                                                                  agency

           State

NDEP (Nevada Department
                                Surface Area Disturbance             Surface Area Disturbance (SAD)
     of environmental
                                     (SAD) Permit for                Permit for disturbance of 5ac or       Final
  Protection) & County (if
                                disturbance of 5ac or more                         more
 located within the PRPD)

                                   As required, provide
 NDWR (Nevada Division
                                  anticipated water rights       Provide anticipated source of proof
  of Water Resources) &
                                  permits being used for            of adequate water rights and            Final
  County Water District
                                construction and O&M and          engineers estimate of water usage
     Governing Board
                                    point of diversion.

                                As applicable Encroachment
                                 permits for highway and         Letter of compliance and approval
NDOT (Nevada Division of
                                 County Road access and             from NDOT and County and
 Transportation) & County                                                                                   Final
                                    Road Maintenance             confirmation that an Encroachment
     Road Department
                                  agreements for County                 Permit can be issued
                                         Road Use




                                                     Page 11 of 33
  NDOW (Nevada Division          EIS (Environmental Impact
                                                                      Payment of Cost Recovery Fee            Final
      of Wildlife)                         Study)

  NDOR (Nevada Dept. of                                                  Any Recommendations or
                                        Site Review                                                           Final
   Outdoor Recreation)                                                         Comments



            Local

                                   Lifeline access, safety
 Local Emergency Response                                                Safety and Security Plan             Final
                                          protocols

                                  All telecommunications                    Any comments or
 Telecommunication, Power        owners and operators with            recommendations received from
  and Cable Infrastructure      infrastructure within 2 miles          owners and operators shall be       Preliminary
    owners and operators        of project boundary shall be             submitted to the Planning
                                   notified and consulted                      Department

                                                                      A letter of opposition or support
   Town Board (if located                                                   and any comments or
                                   Presentation of project                                                    Final
     outside of PRPD)                                                 recommendations received from
                                                                               the Town Board

                                                                    A letter of opposition or support
                                                                  for the renewable energy project. If
    SNCCD (So. County
                                                                        an Applicant can provide
   Conservation District) if
                                   Presentation of project         documented evidence of effort to           Final
   applicable dependent on
                                                                  secure a written letter, but does not
       project location
                                                                  receive a written letter, this section
                                                                       shall be deemed satisfied.

                                                                    A letter of opposition or support
                                                                  for the renewable energy project. If
    NNCCD (No. County
                                                                        an Applicant can provide
   Conservation District) if
                                   Presentation of project         documented evidence of effort to           Final
   applicable dependent on
                                                                  secure a written letter, but does not
       project location
                                                                  receive a written letter, this section
                                                                       shall be deemed satisfied.


F. VISUAL IMPACT EVALUATION REPORT: The Applicant shall submit a Visual Impact Evaluation Report
   evaluating the visual impact of all solar panels on properties within the view shed area of the project. The report
   shall assess the visual impact on all properties within the visual impact zones identified below. For Applicants
   required to comply with the National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA), the viewshed analysis conducted in
   accordance with NEPA will fulfill the requirements of this ordinance. For Applicants not subject to NEPA, the
   following shall be included in the Visual Impact Evaluation Report:
    1. View Shed Area Defined: One thousand (1,000) foot radius from each Distel Solar Panel adjacent to the project
    boundary.
    2. A map depicting the dimensions of the proposed site that clearly identifies the setbacks distance in feet from
       each of the each proposed Distal Solar Panel and adjoining property lines, the site of each of the photographic
       simulations taken in the View Shed Area, town boundaries, historic sites/districts, state and local designated


                                                      Page 12 of 33
        scenic areas and roads, recreational areas, designated open space and designated conservation areas, schools,
        parks, water resources, military installations, airports or landing strips.
     3. Detailed description of the potential visibility of the SECS from key observation points identified by the
        Applicant and the methodology used to evaluate visibility within the following View Shed Areas and maps of
        the applicable View Shed Area identifying town boundaries, historic sites, state and local designated scenic
        areas and roads, designated recreational areas, designated open space and designated conservation areas,
        schools, parks, water resources, military installations, airports or landing strips, cell towers, weather, and radar
        stations.
     4. Photographic simulations of the View Shed Area in sufficient number to capture the general visibility of the
        SECS and a map depicting the location for each photographic simulation
     5. Any mitigation measures proposed to minimize the visual impact of the project
     If a visual resources technical report is prepared for the project, as a part of a Federal Agency Led permitting
     process, the Applicant shall provide that report to County in lieu of the Visual Evaluation Impact Report described
     above.
G. NOISE EVALUATION REPORT. The Applicant shall submit a Noise Evaluation Report analyzing potential noise
   generated by SECS. The report shall identify sensitive receptors (if any) in the vicinity of the SECS with the
   potential to experience noise generated by the SECS and shall estimate noise levels at those sensitive receptors
   that would be expected to result from SECS operation. The report shall also provide the manufacturer's technical
   documentation of the proposed solar energy generating equipment noise levels to the extent possible. The report
   shall include a map depicting the noise study area radius, project boundaries, sound level monitoring locations and
   the nearest receptor locations. The Noise Evaluation Report shall include any potential mitigation measures to
   minimize sound levels. If a noise technical report is prepared for the project as part of a Federal Agency-led
   permitting process, the project Applicant shall provide that report to County in lieu of the Noise Evaluation Report
   described above.

H. TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND WIRELESS SIGNALS REPORT. The Applicant shall submit a
   Telecommunications and Wireless Signals Report identifying any expected interference with over the air
   communications and information gathering and provide a verified statement that it will mitigate any such
   interference.
I. NATURAL RESOURCE IMPACT REPORT. The Applicant shall submit a natural Resources Impact Report for
   the proposed project site. The report shall be concise (typically not more than 20 pages, excluding appendices and
   attachments) and shall include a desktop-level analysis briefly describing the potential natural resource impacts as
   a result of the construction, operation, and maintenance of the SECS. The report’s analysis shall consider impacts
   related to:(a) topography, geology, vegetation, soil types, water resources, special status wildlife and their habitat;
   (b) compliance with applicable air and water quality standards; (c) Night Sky International’s Responsible Outdoor
   Lighting Principles in the project design (https://darksky.org/resources/guides-and-how-tos/lighting-principles/)
   (d) compliance with any USFWS solar energy guidelines as applicable. The report shall include a study area map
   with identification of any areas of importance such as wildlife habitat, flood zones, wetlands and watercourses
   evaluated in the report. The report shall also include any potential mitigation measures such as open space, erosion
   control, and habitat replacement to reduce the identified impacts on the project area. If natural resources technical
   reports pertaining to the resources addressed above are prepared for the project as part of a Federal Agency-led
   permitting process, the project Applicant may provide reports submitted to the Federal Agency to County in lieu
   of the Natural Resources Impact Report described
J.
17.10.110 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL: After approval of the Primary Development Plan, a
petition for Final Development Plan approval shall be submitted to the Planning Department and shall include:
A. REVISED SITE PLAN. A revised site plan indicating any changes to the site plan submitted for the Preliminary
   Development Plan Approval.
B. TRANSPORTATION PLAN. A Transportation Plan recommended by the County Road Department and approved
   by the BOCC including a form of financial assurance acceptable to the BOCC for the repair or replacement of all

                                                        Page 13 of 33
    damaged roads, bridges, signage, or other transportation structures during construction, maintenance, and
    operation.
C. DRAINAGE PLAN. A Drainage Plan approved by the County Public Works Department including a form of
   financial assurance acceptable to the BOCC for the repair or replacement of all damaged drains and ditches. The
   Transportation Plan and the Drainage Plan shall state that any newly constructed access roads shall not impede the
   flow of water and will comply with the County drainage ordinance.
D. SAFETY AND SECURITY PLAN. A Safety and Security Plan which must include adequate provisions for site
   security and safety. If the plan includes using County or Town services, it should include signatures of the proper
   authorities indicating they are aware of their role and capable of performing them. The Safety and Security Plan
   must also contain a summary of coordination with local emergency responders and area hospitals.
E. DECOMMISSIONING PLAN. A Decommissioning Plan to ensure that the project is properly decommissioned.
   The Decommissioning Plan must be updated and approved by the BOCC every five (5) years after the approval of
   the initial Decommissioning Plan and after any material improvements are added to the project, in the same manner
   as the initial Decommissioning Plan. The Decommissioning Plan shall include financial assurance that the project
   facilities are properly decommissioned upon the end of the project life or abandonment consistent with this Section.
   The financial assurance must be provided at the completion of construction and prior to the issuance of any future
   Special Use Permit. The obligations with respect to decommissioning shall include removal and proper disposal
   of all physical material pertaining to the project improvements to a depth of five (5) feet beneath the soil surface,
   and restoration of the area occupied by the project improvements such that it is suitable for an equivalent land use
   to what existed immediately before construction of such improvements. The Decommissioning Plan shall include
   a contractor cost estimate from a licensed engineer with experience in these matters for demolition and removal of
   similar facilities. The Decommissioning Plan must include proper disposal of all hazardous material and Operator
   must provide to the BOCC or its designee the certification of disposal issued by the entity providing the disposal
   service and/or the receiving disposal facility. All disposal must comply with local, state and federal law, rules and
   regulations in effect at the time of decommissioning.
F. DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. Applicant shall enter into a Development Agreement pursuant to Nye County
   Code Chapter 16.32.
G. ADDITIONAL ASSURANCES. The Applicant shall provide a notarized statement acknowledging and affirming
   the following with respect to the project:
    1. All duties and obligations of each of the Applicant, Owner, and Operator shall be joint and several, and shall
       be binding upon all each of their heirs, successors in interest, and assigns unless and to the extent any successor
       in interest or assignee assumes in writing assignor’s duties and obligations that may arise hereunder. At least
       forty-five (45) days prior to any Change in Control, written notice shall be given to the County Planning
       Department for presentation and approval by the BOCC. “Change in Control” is defined as (i) an acquisition
       of Applicant, Owner, and Operator by another entity by means of any transaction or series of related
       transactions, (ii) a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Applicant, Owner, or Operator.
    2. BOCC approval of a Change in Control will be conditioned upon the assignee or successor meeting the
       following financial conditions: 1) all Financial Assurances (as hereinafter defined) provided to BOCC
       hereunder have been replaced by the successor or assignee or will be replaced no later than 30-days after the
       date of the Change in Control occurs and are in compliance with the terms and conditions of this Section; 2)
       the assignee or successor agrees in writing to be bound by the terms and conditions of the approval of the Final
       Site Development Plan; and 3) the assignee or successor provides documentation proving that it or its affiliate
       or parent has a) a net worth of at least $24 million dollars; and b) at least five years of experience (or has
       management or an operator on its behalf that has at least five years of experience) in the development and
       operation of projects similar to the proposed project. If the successor or assignee satisfies the foregoing
       financial conditions, then approval by the BOCC shall not be otherwise withheld, delayed or conditioned.

    3. All bonds, sureties, letters of credit or other financial assurances provided under this Section shall remain in
       full force and effect upon any transfer, assignment, or conveyance of an ownership interest until the successor
       in interest delivers an accepted replacement obligation. The transfer, assignment or conveyance of an
       ownership interest in the project without the advance approval of replacement bonds, sureties, letters of credit
       or other financial assurances shall constitute a default and shall not relieve the responsible party of liability

                                                       Page 14 of 33
       unless and until the replacement bonds, sureties, letters of credit or other financial assurances provided is/are
       subsequently approved by the BOCC. However, the transfer of the interest of the Owner(s) shall be allowed
       without advance approval so long as the bond, surety, letter of credit or other financial assurance posted by the
       Applicant or Operator covers the successors in interest of the Owner(s) until replacement bonds, sureties,
       letters of credit or other financial assurances provided is obtained by such successor.
    4. An Owner, or Applicant, or Operator which violates any provision of this Title (including violations by their
       agents, contractors, or subcontractors) and remains in violation beyond applicable notice and cure periods shall
       be subject to fines and all legal remedies under 17.10.350 et seq. Any Owner, or Applicant, or Operator or a
       contractor or agent thereof who engages in any activity prohibited by or under the control of this Title without
       first obtaining any required approval or permit including but not limited to a Special Use Permit, Building
       Permit or a Certificate of Occupancy shall be subject to fines and all legal remedies under County Code
       Section17.10.350 et seq. Each day a violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense. The authority
       to assess fines rests only with the BOCC. The BOCC shall also have all recourse to address violations as
       provided by law.
    5. Enforcement of this Ordinance shall be in compliance with Chapter 17.10.360 of the Zoning Ordinances of
       County, as it may be amended.
H. TIME LIMITATION. An application for Final Development Plan approval must be submitted no later than two
   (2) years after the Preliminary Development Plan approval. If not submitted within two years, the Applicant must
   re-submit its Preliminary Development Plan for approval before submitting its Final Development Plan. The
   Applicant may, but is not required, combine its Preliminary and Final Development Plan approval into one
   submission in that case. No project may exceed the total acreage approved in the Final Development Plan by more
   than two percent (2%) without further approval by the BOCC.
17.10.120 BUILDING PERMITS AND COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION:
After Final Development Plan approval is obtained, but before any construction commences or Building Permits may
be issued, all applicable state and federal permits, approvals and licenses must be obtained (with copies provided to
the County Planning Department) and all state and federal statutes and regulations must be complied with and the
following requirements satisfied:
A. INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS. The Owner, Engineering, Procurement and Construction Contractor, or
  Operator of the project shall maintain liability policies covering (1) bodily injury and property damage and (2)
  environmental contamination arising from construction, operation, maintenance, and decommissioning of the
  project. Limits on the bodily injury and property damage policy shall be two million dollars ($2,000,000) per
  occurrence and five million dollars ($5,000,000) in the aggregate with a deductible of no more than twenty
   thousand dollars ($20,000) and on the environmental contamination policy shall be of at least one million dollars
   ($1,000,000) per occurrence and two million dollars ($2,000,000) in the aggregate with a deductible of no more
   than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000). All such policies shall name County as an additional insured and a binder
   shall be provided annually to County.
B. SIGNAGE AND CONTACT. The Applicant shall establish a twenty-four hour (24) toll-free phone number for the
   registering of complaints and concerns. This number shall be posted at every project service road intersection with
   a public roadway throughout the project area once Building Permits are issued and before any construction or earth
   moving can commence. If Applicant receives a complaint about an issue, condition or event that Applicant has
   reason to believe may cause physical damage or bodily injury to the public and does not remedy, or take reasonable
   steps to remedy, such issue, condition or event within forty-eight hours (48) of receiving the complaint, County
   may address these complaints with any expenses incurred to be reimbursed by the Applicant.
C. PRE-CONSTRUCTION MEETING. The Applicant must attend a Pre-Construction Meeting between the Planning
   Director, Public Works Director, County Building Official, Fire Chief, Director of Emergency Management, and
   any other public officer or official whose input is deemed appropriate to verify that all requirements in the Title
   have been met. This meeting shall take place as the final step before construction and all other requirements should
   already have been met. Once reviewed, if all requirements have been met, the Applicant may then obtain Building
   Permits. If any requirements have not been met, then further pre-construction meetings will be held until it can be
   verified that the identified issues have been resolved.


                                                     Page 15 of 33
D. FEES. All Licensing and Permit fees must be paid for the entire project before any Permits are issued. No permit
   shall be issued if the Applicant has overdue amounts owed to County.
17.10.130 CONSTRUCTION STANDARD: Prior to and during construction the Applicant, Owner and Operator
shall be responsible for:
A. Obtaining an approval for a County Dust Control Plan/Permit and a Surface Area Disturbance Permit from NDEP.
B. Complying with existing septic and well regulation as required by the State of Nevada Division of Public and
   Behavioral Health, Nevada Division of Water Resources and Nevada Department of Environmental Protection.
C. Repairing all damages to County owned or regulated or Non-Participating Landowners' waterways, drainage
   ditches, or any other infrastructures caused by the construction or maintenance of the project so that the waterways,
   drainage, and/or other infrastructure is restored to the same or substantially the same condition as it existed in prior
   to such maintenance or construction. Damages must be completely repaired to its original or better condition, and
   so as not to impede the flow of water. All repairs must be completed in a timely manner and the Owner, Operator,
   and/or Applicant shall be responsible for loss or damage approximately resulting from its impairment of such
   drainage structures. All repairs to County regulated drainage structures will commence within fourteen (14) days
   of notification. To determine if construction activities caused the damage, methods such as visual inspections,
   comparative survey data, and expert assessments are employed. If the construction group believes the damage was
   not caused by their activities, they have the right to submit a detailed report based on these methods to prove they
   are not responsible.
D. Using concrete armoring techniques at each and every location where County regulated drains and subsurface
   power transmission lines greater than 35,000 volts cross. Unopened bags of premixed concrete shall be laid on top
   of the transmission lines to cover six inches on both sides of the line and eight feet to each side of the County
   regulated drain the line is crossing. Open drain and transmission line intersections where the line is below the
   invert of the open drain shall be armored using the same technique. Red warning tape (printed with “warning
   electrical line below” or similar language) shall be buried no closer than twelve (12) inches above the actual power
   line at all crossing locations. The Road Department supervisor or agent designated by the Road Department shall
   inspect every such crossing before backfilling. Concrete armoring techniques will not be required in cases where
   directional boring is used.
E. Installing permanent, visible markers where directional boring is used. Markers shall be placed within the line of
   sight indicating directional changes and borings. Alternatively, operators may use Geographic Information System
   (GIS) mapping to document and publicly register the locations of all directional borings. Ensuring that the details
   are readily accessible for future reference and maintenance.
F. Submitting a monthly plan of work detailing construction and transportation activities to the Planning Department.
   The report shall include notification of any oversize or overweight loads entering or exiting the project as well as
   any work on roads, drainage, or access roads.
G. Adhering to the approved Transportation Plan. The County Road Department and/or appropriate municipal road
   personnel shall conduct a pre-construction baseline survey to determine existing road conditions for assessing
   potential future damage. The County Road Department and/or appropriate municipal road personnel may choose
   to require remediation of road damage during if it is an imminent safety hazard, or upon completion of the project
   and is authorized to collect fees for oversized load permits. If repairs are not made in a timely manner, the County
   Road Department and/or appropriate municipal road personnel are authorized to make repairs and charge the
   Applicant a fee to cover the costs of repair. Such fees shall be established at the start date of construction and may
   be revised at three-month intervals. Further, a corporate surety bond may be required by the County Road
   Department and/or appropriate municipal road personnel to ensure the County or affected municipality that future
   repairs are completed to the satisfaction of the County or affected municipality. The bond shall be released at the
   conclusion of construction of the project, and it may be reduced to cover any damages or losses from the operation
   and maintenance of the project. If the Applicant or its contractors require material changes from the approved
   Transportation Plan or if post completion repairs, improvements, or expansions require oversize and overweight
   loads or involve new routes, an Amended Transportation Plan must be approved in the same manner as the initial
   plan. Any violation of the approved Transportation Plan may be subject to fines as provided in Nye County Code
   Section 17.10.350 et seq. and in addition, may also be subject to fines established by the governing body having
   jurisdiction over the roadway(s) affected.

                                                       Page 16 of 33
H. Adhering to the approved Development Plans. Any non-material proposed changes, modifications, or amendments
   to the Development Plans must be approved by the Director of Planning and the Director of Planning shall
   thereafter report the non-material changes, modifications, or amendments to the BOCC. All material changes to
   the approved Development Plans must be approved by the BOCC. The Director of Planning shall have the authority
   and discretion, considering all relevant factors, to determine whether the proposed change is material or non-
   material.
I. Definition of Material and Non-Material Modifications. A nonmaterial modification is a modification made by the
   Developer by mutual agreement of Developer and Planning Director that: (1) meets or exceeds the requirements
   of this Agreement by advancing or augmenting the objective of the applicable requirement; or (2) does not
   materially increase or modify the land area covered by the project; and (3) does not result in an intensification of
   use or of off-site impacts; (4) does not alter the setbacks, allowed heights, and other bulk standards of the project;
   and (5) does not involve a substantial change to the project design as agreed to in the Development Plan. A
   nonmaterial modification permits the rearrangement of uses and/or additions of existing structures as part of the
   project design if such change is within the scope of the applicable County, state and federal approvals of the project.
   A material modification includes any modification that does not qualify as a nonmaterial modification.
17.10.140 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
A. All installed equipment shall conform to applicable industry standards and the application shall include certificates
   of design compliance of the proposed equipment from nationally recognized third parties in the business of
   certifying compliance.
B. All electrical components of the project shall conform to applicable local, state, and national codes, and relevant
   national and international standards.
C. A visible warning sign concerning voltage must be placed at the base of all pad-mounted transformers and
   substations.
D. All solar panels and accessory buildings for the project must be fenced in with a fence not less than eight (8) feet
   in height.
E. All warning lights in the project shall conform to best industry practices to reduce impacts on migrating birds and
   other wildlife. No red pulsating incandescent lights or white strobe lights shall be installed. All lighting shall be in
   compliance with applicable Federal Aviation Administration regulations. All lighting shall be shielded so that no
   glare extends substantially beyond the boundaries of the project and installed lights shall be Dark Sky compliant
   certified.
F. At any Non-Participating Landowner's residential lot, public school, public library, or recreational area within one-
   quarter mile of the project boundaries, for a period of more than ten percent (10%) out of every hour, the audible
   A-weighted sound pressure levels as a result of the sound emitted by the project shall not exceed either, the greater
   of forty-five (45) decibels or, five (5) decibels above the Ambient Baseline Sound Pressure Level of the project.
   The Ambient Baseline Sound Pressure Level, if used, shall be determined by a baseline acoustic emissions study
   conducted by the County Planning Department and funded by the Applicant. Measurement of sound and vibration
   levels shall be conducted adhering to best practices within the applicable industry and in compliance with all other
   applicable County, state and federal regulations.




17.10.150 SETBACKS AND HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
A. No part of the project shall be constructed in any required setback, dedicated public easement, or dedicated public
   right-of-way without prior written authorization from the BOCC.

B. No solar panel may be located less than one thousand (1000’) feet, from any non-participating private landowner
   property line but may be reduced to three hundred feet (300’) if the project agrees to implement one or more of
   the visual mitigation measures, which will thereby reduce the setback requirement accordingly:
    i.   Visual Berms with Native Vegetation. Applicant may propose to line some or all of the project boundary
         with a visual berm, planted with native vegetation, which, in combination with the vegetation will be 6 feet
                                                       Page 17 of 33
         in height, to obfuscate the project. For the boundaries that include the berm, solar panels may be located no
         less than Three Hundred (300’) feet from any non-participating private landowner property line.
   ii.   Fencing with Visual Screens. Applicant may propose to construct fencing around some or all of the
         project boundary with fencing that include visual screens (which may include, but shall not be limited to, a
         mix of walls, fencing and Native Vegetation). For the boundaries that include this fencing, solar panels may
         be located no less than One Hundred (100’) feet from any non-participating private landowner property line.

C. If an Applicant proposes a project withing the PRPD no solar panel shall be located less than one quarter (.25)
   mile from a residentially zoned property.

D. No solar panel may exceed twenty-five (25’) feet in height at its highest extended rotation.

E. No SECS - 2 solar panel may exceed the height restriction in the underlying zoning district.

F. Applicant shall give notice to the owner of any FAA certified landing strip located adjacent to the project.
   Setbacks will be determined based upon the agreement of the landing strip owner, Applicant, and the Planning
   Department which shall take into consideration the guidelines provided in a U.S. Department of Transportation
   FAA Advisory Circular dated February 26, 2014, as may be updated. Proof of notice must be included with the
   Preliminary Development Plan.

G. Allowed Variances. Variances may only be granted for relief from Nye County Code Section 17.10.150(B) and
   (C). However, the variance application must include an executed agreement between the Applicant and all
   participating and non-participating private landowners affected by the requested variance prior to consideration
   of the variance request by the PRPC if located within the PRPD or BOCC if located outside of the PRPD.
17.10.160 POST-CONSTRUCTION AND CONTINUED MAINTENANCE:
A. DECOMMISSIONING SECURITY. At the commencement of construction but before any commercial operations
   begins, the Applicant shall secure and provide to the BOCC a performance bond, surety bond, letter of credit, or
   other form of financial assurance that is acceptable to the BOCC (the “Decommissioning Security”) equal to 100%
   of the estimated cost of decommissioning the project pursuant to the Decommissioning Plan. Applicant will
   provide the Decommissioning Security to the BOCC or add the BOCC as an additional policy beneficiary should
   the Decommissioning Security be provided to another governmental agency. The Decommissioning Security, in
   computing the estimated cost of decommissioning, shall consider of the Net Salvage Value (as defined) of the
   project. The amount of the Decommissioning Security shall be adjusted annually by January 31 by an amount
   equal to the increase in the CPI Index. “CPI Index” shall mean the Consumer Price Index for “All Urban
   Consumers, U.S. City Average, all items,” issued by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department
   of Labor, or, if discontinued or no longer published, such other governmental index that most closely matches the
   manner in which inflation had been previously tracked as selected by the BOCC. The Decommissioning Plan and
   Decommissioning Surety shall be re-evaluated every three (5) years commencing with the operation of the project
   by a licensed engineer approved by the BOCC and qualified to provide an estimate of the cost of decommissioning
   of the project and the Net Salvage Value of the project (the “Decommissioning Engineer”). A new
   Decommissioning Security in the revised amount, if any, shall be provided within sixty (60) days of the approval
   of the updated Decommissioning Plan.
B. WASTE REMOVAL. All solid waste generated from supplies, equipment, parts, packaging, or operation or
   maintenance of the facility, including old parts and equipment, shall be removed from the site in a timely manner.
   All hazardous waste generated by the operation and maintenance of the facility, including but not limited to
   lubricating materials, shall be handled in a manner consistent with all local, state and federal rules and regulations.
C. MODIFICATIONS. Any physical modification to the project that alters the mechanical load, mechanical load path,
   nameplate generating capacity, size or location or major electrical components shall require a new building permit
   and/or if there is more than a 2% increase in total acreage of the project. Like-kind replacements that do not have
   the effects listed above do not require new permitting. Prior to making any physical modification (other than a
   like-kind replacement), the Applicant shall confer with the Building Official to determine whether the physical
   modification requires new permitting.

                                                       Page 18 of 33
D. INSPECTIONS. Upon request of the Building Official of County, Operator shall provide an annual inspection
   report for all facilities in the project to the Building Official at Operator’s cost. In addition, the Building Official,
   approved designees, along with licensed third-party engineers/professionals retained by County for the specific
   purpose of conducting inspections of the project shall have the right, at any reasonable time and with sufficient
   prior notice, to accompany the Applicant, or his agent, on the project premises to inspect the project and its
   construction and maintenance and to identify any necessary repairs. The Applicant of the project may retain a
   licensed third party professional engineer familiar with the applicable systems to prepare and submit to the County
   Building Official a written report which addresses the repairs or alterations requested, and which suggest alternate
   methods for addressing the concerns or provides evidence that said repairs or alterations are unnecessary, within
   thirty (30) days after receiving notice from the County Building Inspector that repairs or alterations are requested,
   or within a longer period of time mutually acceptable to both parties. The County Building Inspector will consider
   any such written report and determine whether the repairs or alterations should be made as originally requested or
   as suggested in the written report. In the event of a dispute between the County Building Inspector and the
   Applicant or a third-party professional engineer retained by them, as to the repairs or alterations which are required,
   the decision of the County Building Inspector shall be final. These inspections do not relieve any liability of the
   Owner or Operator for damages or injuries arising from or related to the project. The Planning Department or
   designee will inspect and determine compliance with zoning regulations and approved development plans and the
   Planning Director or designee shall thereafter make appropriate report(s) to the BOCC for action, if any action is
   necessary.
E. COMPLAINTS. If, after construction, the Applicant receives a written complaint related to interference caused
   with local broadcast residential television, telecommunication, communication or microwave transmissions, the
   Applicant shall promptly resolve the complaint.
F. AS-BUILT PLANS. The Applicant shall deliver to the Planning Department and to all providers of emergency
   services serving the project area a copy of the as-built site map. Upon request by the local fire department, the
   Applicant shall cooperate with the local fire department to develop or update the fire department’s emergency
   response plan. Nothing in this section shall alleviate the need to comply with all other applicable fire laws and
   regulations.
G. RECORD OF GROUND DISTURBANCE AND ROAD USAGE. On completion of construction the Applicant
   shall submit to the County Road Department a site map detailing all ground disturbed through construction activity,
   surface and subsurface as-built infrastructure and all routes over which trucks and equipment traveled. The scale
   and format of the submitted map shall conform to the County Road Departments specifications.
H. LIABILITY FOR DRAINAGE. For a period of two (2) years following the completion of construction the
   Applicant shall be liable for all costs of repair to County roads, regulated drains and ditches and other County
   regulated surface and subsurface structures within fifty (50) feet of the routes used and ground disturbed by project
   construction, operations, replacement, or maintenance. County may request additional repairs be completed
   beyond the two (2) year period for any documented damage occurring as a result of operations, replacement or
   maintenance of the project after the two (2)-year period.
 I. ABANDONMENT. A SECS or any individual solar panel constituting a portion of the project is presumed at the
    end of its useful life and/or abandoned if the SECS or the individual solar panel generates no electricity for a
    continuing period of twelve (12) months. This presumption may be rebutted by submitting to the BOCC for
    approval and within ninety (90) days of submission obtaining approval thereof of a plan outlining the steps and
    schedules for returning the SECS or individual solar panel to service. Any SECS or individual solar panel which
    pursuant to the terms hereof is either reached the end of its useful life and/or abandoned pursuant to the terms
    hereof shall be subject to removal pursuant to the Decommissioning Plan.
 J. UNSAFE STRUCTURES. Any SECS or structure thereof declared to be unsafe by the County Building Official
    or County Code Compliance or its designee by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire
    hazard, disaster, damage or abandonment is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by repair
    or rehabilitation within six (6) months or be deemed abandoned and at the end of its useful life and subject to
    Decommissioning. Nothing herein prevents the County Building Official or the Nye County Code Compliance
    Department from issuing an immediate Cease and Desist order as to any structure that he or she determines is
    unsafe during the repair or rehabilitation period.


                                                       Page 19 of 33
17.10.170 POST-CONSTRUCTION MODIFICATIONS: Any post-construction proposed material modifications,
alterations, expansions, or changes of any type or size to the Final Development Plan must be approved by the BOCC.
All material post construction proposed changes must apply in the same way as a new project. The Planning Director
shall have the authority and discretion, considering all relevant factors, to determine whether the proposed post-
construction change is material. Refer to Nye County Code Section 17.10.130 (I) for definition of material versus
nonmaterial modification.
17.10.180 NO PREEMPTION: Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to preempt other applicable State and Federal
laws and regulations, except to the extent this Ordinance provides higher or more stringent standards.




17.10.230 ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM DISTINCTIONS. Wind Energy Conversion Systems may be
installed in the County and will require a Special Use Permit and a Development Agreement to be entered into between
Applicant/developer and County for all WECS-1 projects. Acreage is measured from a perimeter fence surrounding
the total wind energy generation facilities including any substations, energy storage or electrical support buildings.
Any wind energy generation facilities intended to be operated as an integrated system shall be regulated according to
the aggregate total acreage. Any subsequent phase of an approved project shall meet the criteria required of the total
acreage of all phases.

          Type                         Acreage                                        Other

                            Greater than 10 acres or daily Electricity sold to utility transmission lines
        WECS-1              aggregate production of (1)
                            megawatt or more per day.

                            More than .5 acre up to 10 acres Electricity exclusively behind the meter generation for
        WECS-2
                            on one or more properties        single property owner


17.10.240 DESIGNATION OF USE IN DISTRICTS IN THE PRPD:
Subject to the requirements of this Section, the designated wind energy projects are permitted uses (X) or special
exception with a Special Use Permit (E) uses in the following districts. No Special Use Permits shall not be issued to
any Applicant without the BOCC granting preliminary and final approval at public hearings.

                 District                             WECS-1                                  WECS-2

                 RH-9.5                                                                          X

                 RH-4.5                                                                          X

                  RE-2                                                                           X

                  RE-1                                                                           X

                   SE                                                                            X

                 VR-20                                                                           X

                   NC                                                                            X

                   GC                                                                            X

                   CM                                                                            X

                                                     Page 20 of 33
                  TC                                                                             X

                  CC                                                                             X

                  M                                                                              X

                 VC                                                                              X

                 BO                                                                              X

                 AO                                                                              X

                  SO                                                                             X

                 MU                                                                              X

                  LI                                                                             X

                  HI                                                                             X

                  OS                                      E                                      X

                  BR                                                                             X

                 OU                                       E                                      X

                  R                                       E

                  CF                                                                             X


17.10.250 APPROVAL PROCESS:
A. All WECS - 1 projects subject to this Section shall be considered at two public hearings before the BOCC and
   shall comply with all requirements of this Title. The first hearing shall consider granting preliminary approval.
   The second hearing shall consider granting final approval. Final approval may not be granted sooner than twenty-
   eight (28) days after preliminary approval absent extraordinary circumstances proven by the Applicant to the
   satisfaction of the BOCC.
B. An application for any use designated as a Special Exception shall be heard by the BOCC prior to submission of
   a site development plan to the BOCC. Applicant may submit the preliminary site development plan and the Special
   Use Permit application at the same time, however, the BOCC must take action on the Special Use Permit
   Application prior to the public hearing on a preliminary site development plan before the BOCC.
C. Following final approval, the Applicant must comply with the requirements as set forth in this Section with respect
   to receiving a Special Use Permit for the project.
D. Any Applicant seeking a variance allowed under County Code Section 17.10.310(H) from any setback or height
   restriction requirement of this Section must receive that approval from the applicable Town Board, PRPC if
   located within the PRPD, or BOCC if outside the PRPD with a letter of support or opposition obtained from the
   Town Board if located within a town boundary and submit such variance recommendation for approval or denial
   with its final development plan application. Only the BOCC may approve any departure from the procedures for
   approval or any modification of final approval.
E. All information provided and gathered during a preliminary development plan review and/or a final development
   plan review may be used by the BOCC in determining whether to approve or disapprove the plan and, if approved,


                                                     Page 21 of 33
      what reasonable additional restrictions or provisions shall be included in the plan in addition to those outlined
      herein.
  17.10.260 PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL: A completed application for preliminary
  development plan approval signed by the Applicant shall be filed with the County Planning Department. If the
  Applicant is not the owner of the real property on which the project is sited, all property owners of the real property
  where the project is to be located must be Co-Applicants. The application shall include the following items submitted
  in both hard copy and/or electronic format, as required by the reviewing Agency:
  A. PROJECT SUMMARY. An initial project summary including a description of the project stating the approximate
     total name plate generating capacity and the name plate generating capacity of each wind tower, the total acreage
     included in the project and the GIS coordinates of the general outline of the project area, the potential equipment
     manufacturers and type of wind energy conversion system to be used, the number of towers, the maximum height
     of the wind towers and maximum diameter of the rotors, and description of substations, power inverters,
     maintenance structures, storage yards, permanent wind resource monitoring structures and equipment, and other
     buildings that are a direct functional part of the project. If any part of the project will include battery storage, the
     kinds of batteries to be used, the manufacturer, and the type of installation shall also be included.

B. APPLICANT AND CO-APPLICANTS. A description of the Applicant, Owner and Operator and any other
   responsible party and if applicable each of their intermediate and ultimate parent companies, listing experience in
   similar projects and gross capitalization. List names, addresses, email addresses, websites and phone numbers of
   the Applicants, Owners and Operators and all Co-Applicants.

C. MAPS. A map or maps of the project site and surrounding quarter-mile radius that shows the topography (at 2-foot
   contours), political and natural features of the project site. The map shall include the individual land parcels by
   Assessors tax parcel number and clearly identify whether the property is participating in the project or not. The map
   shall also identify the zoning designations if applicable, all streets and roadways by classification, municipal and
   township boundaries, residential structures, public lands, public and private schools (including colleges and
   universities) existing utilities and transmission lines, public safety facilities, governmental boundaries, public
   recreational land, OHV trails, RS-2477 Roads and any commercial or public structure such as stores, churches,
   airports or landing strips. If more than one map is submitted, all maps shall be drawn at the same scale. All maps
   shall be submitted in hard copy and electronic format as specified by the Planning Department.

D. SITE PLAN. The Applicant shall submit a site plan at an appropriate scale showing the proposed location of the
   project facilities; proposed access roads; substations; maintenance structures; storage yards; permanent wind
   resource measuring or monitoring installations; electrical cabling; ancillary equipment; and any other structures that
   are a direct functional part of the project. Each wind tower and/or supporting structure should be assigned a unique
   identification number on the site plan. In addition, the site plan shall show: primary structures within one quarter
   mile of any project; property lines, including identification of non-participating adjoining properties; setback lines;
   public roads; County regulated drains, open ditches or tiles including private tiles if located in a public right of way;
   location of all above-ground utility lines; location of all existing underground utility lines associated with the site;
   recognized historic or heritage sites as noted by the Nevada Department of Natural Resources; floodplains; and any
   wetlands based upon a delineation prepared in accordance with the applicable U.S. Army Corps of Engineer
   requirements and guidelines, and the location of any other condition or facility regulated by any other agency having
   jurisdiction of activity on the site. This site plan must also be distributed to emergency management agencies, fire
   departments serving any part of the project site, the County Sheriff, and the chief executive body of any municipal
   government or Town Board whose boundary is within 10 miles of the project site. The site plan shall identify any
   public, private, or parochial school property (not including home schools) located within two miles of the project
   boundaries. For purposes of this section and Nye County Code Section 17.10.310, “school” means any public,
   private, or parochial educational facility for students from K-12 registered with the State of Indiana and does not
   include home schools.

E. COORDINATION WITH APPLICABLE ENTITIES. The Applicant shall submit a summary report identifying the
   entities the Applicant has communicated and coordinated with respect to the project. The report shall list the entity
   name, the primary contact person at the entity and contact information, the dates of coordination and list of
   documents submitted to each agency. The report shall also transmit any comments, suggestions, concerns,

                                                         Page 22 of 33
approvals, or disapprovals with respect to the project issued by the entity and/or communicated to the Applicant.
The following entities shall be contacted:



      Authority                    Purpose                         Type of Documentation         When Required

       Federal

                           Coordinate to reduce any         Compliance letters for each wind
         FAA                                                                                      Preliminary
                         flight or airport interference                 project

                             Coordinate siting to
                                                          Any recommendations or comments
 DOD Siting, NOAA         mitigate radar interference                                             Preliminary
                                                              received submitted to APC
                          or any other interference.

                           Compliance with air and
                                                          Any recommendations or comments
         EPA               water quality standards                                                Preliminary
                                                                  submitted to APC
                                under NEPA

USFWS Nevada Field
     Office
Migratory Bird Treaty                                      Any recommendations or comments
    Act (MBTA)            Compliance with any solar
                                                          submitted to APC and part of Natural    Preliminary
                                 guidelines
 Eagle Protection Act                                              Resources Report
 Endangered Species
        Act



        State

                          Surface Area Disturbance          Surface Area Disturbance (SAD)
        NDEP                   (SAD) Permit for             Permit for disturbance of 5ac or         Final
                          disturbance of 5ac or more                      more

                          Verify water rights being
                          used for construction and       Approval for point of diversion and
       NDWR                                                                                       Preliminary
                          O&M are permitted and             proof of adequate water rights
                             point of diversion.

                          Encroachment permits for         Letter of compliance and approval
        NDOT                                                                                         Final
                              highway access                          from NDOT

       NDOW                          EIS                   Letter of Compliance and approval         Final



        Local

    Private Airport
                                                          Any recommendations or comments
 authorities permitted    Coordinate siting process                                               Preliminary
                                                                  submitted to APC
       by FAA


                                                   Page 23 of 33
   County Water District            Review of water             Water conservation plan, engineers
                                                                                                           Preliminary
     Governing Board               conservation plan                 estimate of water usage

                                 Road Plan Approval
        County Road           (construction, maintenance,
                                                                          Transportation Plan                 Final
        Department                 access cuts) Road
                                remediation agreement

      Local Emergency            Lifeline access, safety
                                                                        Safety and Security Plan              Final
         Response                       protocols

                                All telecommunications
     Telecommunication,        owners and operators with
                                                               Any comments or recommendations
      Power and Cable            infrastructure shall be
                                                               received from owners and operators          Preliminary
    Infrastructure owners        notified and consulted
                                                                  shall be submitted to the APC
        and operators           within 2 miles of project
                                        boundary

                                                               A letter of opposition or support and
   Town Board(if located
                                 Presentation of project       any comments or recommendations                Final
     outside of PRPD)
                                                                  received from the Town Board


 F. VISUAL IMPACT EVALUATION REPORT: The Applicant shall submit a Visual Impact Evaluation Report
    evaluating the visual impact of all turbines on properties within certain distances of the project. The report shall
    assess the visual impact on all properties within the visual impact zones identified below. The following shall be
    included in the Visual Impact Evaluation Report:
    1. A map depicting the dimensions of the proposed site, names and addresses of adjoining property owners not
       participating in the project that clearly identifies the setbacks distance in feet from each of the proposed turbine
       locations and adjoining property lines, the site of each of the photographic simulations taken in the View Shed
       Area, town and city boundaries, historic sites/districts, state and local designated scenic areas and roads,
       recreational areas, open space and conservation areas, schools, parks, water resources, military installations,
       airports or landing strips, cell towers, weather and radar stations.

    2. Detailed description of the potential visibility of each proposed turbine and the methodology used evaluate
       visibility within the following View Shed Areas and maps of the applicable View Shed Area identifying town
       and city boundaries, historic sites/districts, state and local designated scenic areas and roads, recreational areas,
       open space and conservation areas, schools, parks, water resources, military installations, airports or landing
       strips, cell towers, weather, and radar stations.

    3. View Shed Areas Defined (a) turbine height less than two hundred (200) feet – two (2) mile radius from each
       turbine foundation; (b) greater than two hundred (200) feet to four hundred (400) feet – four (4) mile radius
       from each turbine foundation; (c) greater than four hundred (400) feet to six hundred (600) feet – six (6) mile
       radius from each turbine foundation; (d) greater than six hundred (600) feet – eight (8) mile radius from each
       turbine foundation.

    4. Photographic simulations of the View Shed Area in sufficient number to capture the general visibility of
       turbines and a map depicting the location for each photographic simulation.

    5. Any mitigation measures proposed to minimize the visual impact of the project.

G. NOISE EVALUATION REPORT. The applicant shall submit a Noise Evaluation Report for each proposed wind
   turbine location and any substation or facility that emits noise in the project. The report shall state the daytime and

                                                        Page 24 of 33
      nighttime base-line noise level at the primary dwelling on an adjoining non-participating parcel, in the event
      permission for the receptor to be located at the primary dwelling is not granted by the non-participant, then at a
      point on the property line closest to the primary dwelling; the potential noise level generated by each turbine and
      when all turbines are operating and inverters and any substation associated with the project; the manufacturer's
      technical documentation of the proposed turbines noise levels. The Noise Evaluation Report shall include the
      projected maximum levels of infrasonic sound, ultrasonic sound, impulsive noise and prominent discrete tones
      generated and measured at the primary dwelling on the non-participating parcel (or property line receptor if
      permission not given as set forth above). The report shall include a map depicting the noise study area radius,
      project boundaries, sound level monitoring locations and the nearest receptor locations. The Noise Evaluation
      Report shall include any potential mitigation measures to minimize sound levels.

H. SHADOW FLICKER EVALUATION REPORT (WIND). The Applicant for a WECS project shall submit a
   Shadow Flicker Evaluation Report for each of the proposed turbine locations that includes an analysis of conditions
   that may cause shadow flicker, the methodology used to evaluate shadow flicker and the manufacturer's technical
   documentation relating to shadow flicker. A study area map of the proposed site depicting the shadow flicker
   analysis area radius, locations of proposed turbines and all off-site (not in the project area) occupied structures and
   areas of shadow flicker occurrence identified by total annual hours. The Shadow Flicker Evaluation Report shall
   identify the following with respect to each turbine and any off-site occupied structure located within one mile of
   the project boundary: distance in feet to the closest turbine; shadow length and intensity, shadow flicker frequency,
   specific times shadow flicker is expected to occur, duration of shadow flicker in total annual hours. The Shadow
   Flicker Evaluation Report shall include any mitigation measures proposed to minimize the impact of shadow
   flicker.

I.    TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND WIRELESS SIGNALS REPORT. The Applicant shall submit a
      Telecommunications and Wireless Signals Report identifying any expected interference with over the air
      communications and information gathering and provide a verified statement that it will mitigate any such
      interference. The Applicant will coordinate its report with NOAA and any other agencies dependent on wireless
      communications that may be affected.
 J. NATURAL RESOURCE IMPACT REPORT. The Applicant shall submit a natural Resources Impact Report for the
     proposed project site. The Natural Resources Impact Report shall include a detailed description of the potential
     natural resource impacts as a result of the construction, operation, and maintenance of the WECS that includes
     identification and analysis of (a) topography, geology, vegetation, soil types, water resources including wetlands,
     avian, terrestrial, and marine wildlife habitats as applicable; (b) compliance with applicable air and water quality
     standards; (c) compliance with USFWS Land-Based Wind Energy Guidelines as applicable, and (d) compliance
     with any site specific recommendations made by NDOW, NCDEM, NCWGB and NCNRD. The report shall
     include a study area map with identification of any areas of importance such as wildlife habitat, bat habitat, flood
     zones, wetlands and watercourses evaluated in the report. The report shall also include any potential mitigation
     measures such as open space, erosion control, and habitat replacement to reduce the identified impacts on the
     project area.
 K.
 17.10.270 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL: After approval of the Primary Development Plan, a
 petition for Final Development Plan approval shall be submitted to the Planning Department and shall include:
 A. REVISED SITE PLAN. A revised site plan indicating any changes to the site plan submitted for the Preliminary
    Development Plan Approval.

 B. TRANSPORTATION PLAN. A Transportation Plan recommended by the County Road Department and approved
    by the BOCC including a form of financial assurance acceptable to the BOCC for the repair or replacement of all
    damaged roads, bridges, signage, or other transportation structures during construction, maintenance, and
    operation.

 C. DRAINAGE PLAN. A Drainage Plan approved by the County Public Works Department and including a form of
    financial assurance acceptable to County for the repair or replacement of all damaged drains, ditches. The


                                                        Page 25 of 33
    Transportation Plan and the Drainage Plan shall state that any newly constructed access roads shall not impede
    the flow of water and will comply with the County drainage ordinance.

D. SAFETY AND SECURITY PLAN. A Safety and Security Plan which must include adequate provisions for site
   security and safety, including without limitation the specific protocol, times and contact information for shutting
   down a wind turbine. If the plan includes using County services, it should include signatures of the proper
   authorities indicating they are aware of their role and capable of performing it. Coordination with local emergency
   responders and area hospitals must be included.

    E. DECOMMISSIONING PLAN. A Decommissioning Plan to ensure that the project is properly
       decommissioned. The Decommissioning Plan must be updated and approved by the BOCC every three (3)
       years after the approval of the initial Decommissioning Plan and after any material improvements are added
       to the project, in the same manner as the initial Decommissioning Plan. The Decommissioning Plan shall
       include financial assurance that the project facilities are properly decommissioned upon the end of the project
       life or abandonment consistent with this Section. The financial assurance must be provided at the completion
       of construction and prior to the issuance of any improvement location permit. The obligations with respect to
       decommissioning shall include removal and proper disposal of all physical material pertaining to the project
       improvements to a depth of five (5) feet beneath the soil surface, and restoration of the area occupied by the
       project improvements such that it is suitable for an equivalent land use to what existed immediately before
       construction of such improvements. The Decommissioning Plan shall include a contractor cost estimate from
       a licensed engineer with experience in these matters for demolition and removal of similar facilities. The
       Decommissioning Plan must include proper disposal of all hazardous material and the Operator must provide
       to the BOCC the certification of disposal issued by the entity providing the disposal service and/or the
       receiving disposal facility. All disposal must comply with local, state and federal law, rules and regulations in
       effect at the time of decommissioning.

    F. CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION BOND. A Construction and Operation Bond that runs from the date
       of commencement of construction through the tenth (10th) year of operation of the project. The Applicant
       shall demonstrate that it has the financial resources to construct and operate the project by providing evidence
       of: (1) adequate funding of one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of construction of the project;
       (2) performance and payment bonds or other sureties from the Applicant and/or major equipment suppliers
       and contractors; (3) the existence of written warranties from contractors and/or manufacturers which have
       demonstrated financial ability to repair and/or replace defective work, materials, and equipment; and (4)
       adequate casualty, builders risk, business interruption, and liability insurance for the replacement of the
       project facilities and the individual components thereof. The Applicant may provide such cost estimates, bids,
       contracts, warranties, feasibility studies, engineering studies and reports, insurance certificates, loan and other
       financing commitments to provide the requested information.

    G. DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. Applicant shall enter into a Development Agreement pursuant to Nye
       County Code Chapter 16.32.

    H. ADDITIONAL ASSURANCES. The Applicant shall provide a notarized statement acknowledging and
       affirming the following with respect to the project:

    1. All duties and obligations of each of the Applicant, Owner, and Operator shall be joint and several, and shall
       be binding upon all each of their heirs, successors in interest, and assigns. At least thirty (30) days prior to
       any transfer of any ownership interest in the project, written notice shall be given to the County Planning
       Department for presentation and approval by the BOCC. All bonds, sureties, letters of credit or other financial
       assurances provided under this Section shall remain in full force and effect upon any transfer, assignment, or
       conveyance of an ownership interest until the successor in interest delivers an accepted replacement
       obligation. The transfer, assignment, or conveyance of an ownership interest in the project without the
       advance approval of replacement bonds, sureties, letters of credit or other financial assurances shall constitute
       a default and shall not relieve the responsible party of liability. However, the transfer of the interest of the
       Owner(s) shall be allowed without advance approval so long as the bond, surety, letter of credit or other
       financial assurance posted by the Applicant or Operator covers the successors in interest of the Owner(s).

                                                      Page 26 of 33
    2. An Owner, or Applicant, or Operator which violates any provision of this Title (including violations by their
       agents, contractors, or subcontractors) shall be subject to fines and all legal remedies under 17.10.350 et seq.
       Any Owner, or Applicant, or Operator or a contractor or agent thereof who engages in any activity prohibited
       by or under the control of this Title without first obtaining any required approval or permit including but not
       limited to an Improvement Location Permit or a Certificate of Occupancy shall be subject to fines and all
       legal remedies under Nye County Code Section 17.10.350 et seq. Each day a violation occurs or continues
       constitutes a separate offense. The authority to assess fines rests only with the BOCC. The BOCC shall also
       have all recourse to address violations as provided by law.

    3. Enforcement of this Ordinance shall be in compliance with Nye County Code Section 17.10.350, as it may
       be amended.

    I.   TIME LIMITATION. An application for Final Development Plan approval must be submitted no later than
         two years after the Preliminary Development Plan approval. If not submitted within two (2) years, the
         Applicant must re-submit its Preliminary Development Plan for approval before submitting its Final
         Development Plan. The Applicant may, but is not required, combine its Preliminary and Final Development
         Plan approval into one submission in that case. No project may exceed the total acreage approved in the Final
         Development Plan by more than two percent (2%) without further approval by the BOCC.

17.10.280 BUILDING PERMITS AND COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION:
After Final Development Plan approval is obtained, but before any construction commences or Improvement Location
Permits may be issued, all applicable state and federal permits, approvals and licenses must be obtained (with copies
provided to the County Planning Department) and all state and federal statutes and regulations must be complied with
and the following requirements satisfied:
A. INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS. The Owner or Operator of the project shall maintain liability policies covering
   (1) bodily injury and property damage and (2) environmental contamination arising from construction, operation,
   maintenance, and decommissioning of the project. Limits on the bodily injury and property damage policy shall
   be of at least two million dollars ($2,000,000) per occurrence and five million dollars ($5,000,000) in the
   aggregate with a deductible of no more than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) and on the environmental
   contamination policy shall be of at least one million dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence and two million dollars
   ($2,000,000) in the aggregate with a deductible of no more than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000). All such policies
   shall name County and the municipality in which the project is located as an additional insured and a binder shall
   be provided annually to County.

B. SIGNAGE AND CONTACT. The Applicant shall establish a twenty-four (24) hour toll-free phone number for
   the registering of complaints and concerns. This number shall be posted at every project service road intersection
   with a public roadway throughout the project area before Improvement Location Permits are issued and before
   any construction or earth moving can commence. If legitimate complaints are not remedied within forty-eight
   (48) hours County may address these complaints with any expenses incurred to be reimbursed by the Applicant.

C. PRE-CONSTRUCTION MEETING. The Applicant must attend a Pre-Construction Meeting between Planning
   Director, Public Works Director, County Building Official, Fire Chief, Director of Emergency Management and
   any other public officer or official whose input is deemed appropriate to verify that all requirements in the Title
   have been met. This meeting shall take place as the final step before construction and all other requirements
   should already have been met. Once reviewed, if all requirements have been met, the Applicant may then obtain
   Building Permits. If any requirements have not been met, then further pre-construction meetings will be held until
   it     can      be       verified      that     the     identified      issues      have       been      resolved.

D. FEES. All Improvement Location Permit fees must be paid for the entire project before any Improvement
   Location Permits will be issued.




                                                     Page 27 of 33
17.10.290 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS: Prior to and during construction the Applicant, Owner and Operator
shall be responsible for:
A. Obtaining an approval for a County Dust Control Plan/Permit and a Surface Area Disturbance Permit from NDEP.

B. Complying with existing septic and well regulation as required by the State of Nevada Division of Public and
   Behavioral Health, Nevada Division of Water Resources and Nevada Department of Environmental Protection.

C. Repairing all damages to County owned or regulated or Non-Participating Landowners' waterways, drainage
   ditches, field tiles, or any other infrastructures caused by the construction or maintenance of the project. Damages
   must be completely repaired to original or better condition, and so as not to impede the flow of water. All repairs
   must be completed in a timely manner and the Owner, Operator, and/or Applicant shall be responsible for loss or
   damage proximately resulting from its impairment of such drainage structures. All repairs to County regulated
   drainage structures must be completed within fourteen (14) days.

D. Using concrete armoring techniques at each and every location where County regulated drains and subsurface
   power transmission lines of any type of cross. Unopened bags of premixed concrete shall be laid on top of the
   transmission lines to cover six inches on both sides of the line and eight feet to each side of the County regulated
   drain the line is crossing. Open drain and transmission line intersections where the line is below the invert of the
   open drain shall be armored using the same technique. Red warning tape (printed with “warning electrical line
   below” or similar language) shall be buried no closer than twelve (12) inches above the actual power line at all
   crossing locations. The Road Department Supervisor or agent designated by the Road Department shall inspect
   every such crossing before backfilling. Concrete armoring techniques will not be required in cases where
   directional boring is used.

E. Installing permanent, visible markers where directional boring is used. Markers shall be placed within the line of
   sight indicating directional changes and borings.

F. Submitting a weekly plan of work detailing where construction and transportation activities will occur to the
   County Road Department Supervisor, County Sheriff, County Surveyor, the Superintendent(s) of the School
   District(s) in which construction is occurring and to the emergency services with jurisdiction over the areas in
   which construction is occurring. This shall include notification of any oversize or overweight loads entering or
   exiting the project each day as well as any work on roads, drainage, or access roads.

G. Adhering to the approved Transportation Plan. The County Road Department and/or appropriate municipal road
   personnel shall conduct a pre-construction baseline survey to determine existing road conditions for assessing
   potential future damage. The County Road Department and/or appropriate municipal road personnel may choose
   to require remediation of road damage during or upon completion of the project and is authorized to collect fees
   for oversized load permits. If repairs are not made in a timely manner, the County Road Department and/or
   appropriate municipal road personnel is authorized to make repairs and charge the Applicant a fee to cover the
   costs of repair. Such fees shall be established at the start date of construction and may be revised at three-month
   intervals. Further, a corporate surety bond shall be required by the County Road Department and/or appropriate
   municipal road personnel to ensure the County or affected municipality that future repairs are completed to the
   satisfaction of the County or affected municipality. The bond shall not be released at the conclusion of construction
   of the project, but it may be reduced to cover any damages or losses from the operation and maintenance of the
   project. If the Applicant or its contractors require material changes from the approved Transportation Plan or if
   post completion repairs, improvements, or expansions require oversize and overweight loads or involve new
   routes, an Amended Transportation Plan must be approved in the same manner as the initial plan. Any violation of
   the approved Transportation Plan may be subject to fines as provided in Nye County Code Section 17.10.350 et
   seq. and in addition, may also be subject to fines established by the governing body having jurisdiction over the
   roadway(s) affected.

H. Adhering to the approved Development Plans. Any non-material proposed changes, modifications, or amendments
   to the Development Plans must be approved by the Director of Planning and the Director of Planning shall
   thereafter make report of the non-material changes, modifications, or amendments to the BOCC. All material

                                                      Page 28 of 33
   changes to the approved Development Plans must be approved by the BOCC. The Director of Planning shall have
   the authority and discretion, considering all relevant factors, to determine whether the proposed change is material
   or non-material.

17.10.300 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
A. All installed equipment shall conform to applicable industry standards and the application shall include
   certificates of design compliance of the proposed equipment from nationally recognized third parties in the
   business of certifying compliance.

B. All WECS Towers shall be installed with a tubular, monopole type tower. Meteorological towers may be guyed.
   All WECS Towers shall be uniform in design and appearance.

C. All WECS Towers shall be equipped with a redundant braking system. This includes both aerodynamic over-
   speed controls (including variable pitch, tip, and other similar systems) and mechanical brakes. Mechanical brakes
   shall be operated in a fail-safe mode. Stall regulation shall not be considered a sufficient braking system for over-
   speed protection.

D. All electrical components of the project shall conform to applicable local, state, and national codes, and relevant
   national and international standards.

E. WECS Towers and blades shall be painted with non-reflective white or gray color. The Applicant shall comply
   with all applicable Federal Aviation Administration color requirements. No advertising or signage shall be allowed
   on a WECS Tower, except for manufacturer's name on the nacelle.

F. A visible warning sign concerning voltage must be placed at the base of all pad-mounted transformers and
   substations.

G. All WECS Tower designs must include features to deter climbing or be protected by anti-climbing devices such
   as: 1) fences with locking portals at least eight feet high, 2) anti-climbing devices fifteen (15) feet vertically from
   the base of the wind tower, and/or 3) locked wind tower doors.

H. All warning lights in the project shall conform to best industry practices to reduce impacts on migrating birds and
   other wildlife. No red pulsating incandescent lights or white strobe lights shall be installed. All lighting shall be
   in compliance with applicable Federal Aviation Administration regulations. All lighting shall be shielded so that
   no glare extends substantially beyond the boundaries of the project and installed lights shall be Dark Sky certified.
I. At any Non-Participating Landowner's residential lot, public school, public library, or recreational area within
   one-quarter mile of the project boundaries, for a period of more than ten percent (10%) out of every hour, the
   audible A-weighted sound pressure levels as a result of the sound emitted by the project shall not exceed either,
   the greater of forty five (45) decibels or, five (5) decibels above the Ambient Baseline Sound Pressure Level of
   the project at Critical Wind Speeds. The Ambient Baseline Sound Pressure Level, if used, shall be determined by
   a baseline acoustic emissions study conducted by the Planning Department, and funded by the Applicant.
   Measurement of sound and vibration levels shall be conducted adhering to best practices within the applicable
   industry and in compliance with all other applicable County, state and federal regulations.

J. The maximum WECS turbine shadow flicker experiences at a non-participating landowner dwelling shall be zero.
   Measurements to assess shadow flicker shall be for all non-participating landowner dwellings located within 0.6
   miles or 3,168 feet of a turbine. If shadow flicker will exceed this level, then a shadow flicker mitigation plan
   must be submitted for each affected Non-Participating dwelling which shall provide for zero shadow flicker for
   the affected Non-Participating dwelling.

K. The minimum distance between the ground and any protruding blade(s) utilized on a WECS Tower shall be fifty
   (50) feet, as measured at the lowest point of the arc of the blades. The minimum distance shall be increased as
   necessary to provide for vehicle clearance in locations where over-sized vehicles might travel.


                                                       Page 29 of 33
17.10.310 SETBACKS AND HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
A. No part of the project shall be constructed in any required setback, dedicated public easement or dedicated public
   right-of-way without prior written authorization from the BOCC.

B. No WECS Tower may be located less than the greater of (a) 2.5 times the height of the WECS Tower including
   the blade at its highest point or (b) the manufacturer's recommended setback as determined by a blade throw study
   performed and certified by a professional engineer to any non-participating landowner property line

C. No WECS Tower or permanent Meteorological Towers may be located less than 1.5 times the height of the WECS
   Tower including the blade at its highest point to any residential structure inside or outside the project boundaries.

D. No WECS Tower may be located less than 1.5 times the height of the WECS Tower to a dedicated roadway,
   railroad right-of-way, overhead electrical transmission or distribution lines.

E. Any WECS project proposed shall not have a project boundary closer than one (1) mile to any municipal boundary
   line or closer than two (2) miles to any public, private, or parochial school property boundary line as set forth in
   Nye County Code Section 17.10.250(D).

F. No WECS – 2 Tower may exceed the height restriction in the underlying zoning district.

G. Applicant shall give notice to the owner of any private certified landing strip. Setbacks will be determined based
   upon the agreement of the landing strip owner, Applicant, and the BOCC which shall take into consideration the
   guidelines provided in a U.S. Department of Transportation FAA Advisory Circular dated February 26, 2014, as
   may be updated. Proof of notice must be included with the Preliminary Development Plan.

H. Allowed Variances. Variances may only be granted for relief from Nye County Code Section 17.10.310 (B) or
   (C). However, the variance application must include an executed agreement between the Applicant and all
   participating and non-participating landowners, municipality, or school district affected by the requested variance
   prior to consideration of the variance request by the PRPC if located within the PRPD or BOCC in all other areas
   of County.

17.10.320 POST-CONSTRUCTION AND CONTINUED MAINTENANCE:
A. DECOMMISSIONING SECURITY. At the completion of construction but before any commercial operations
   begins, the Applicant shall secure and provide to the BOCC a performance bond, surety bond, letter of credit, or
   other form of financial assurance that is acceptable to the BOCC (the “Decommissioning Security”) equal to
   125% of the estimated cost of decommissioning the project pursuant to the Decommissioning Plan. The
   Decommissioning Security, in computing the estimated cost of decommissioning, shall consider and deduct up to
   sixty-five percent (65%) of the Net Salvage Value of the project. The amount of the Decommissioning Security
   shall be adjusted annually by January 31 by an amount equal to the increase in the CPI Index. “CPI Index” shall
   mean the Consumer Price Index for “All Urban Consumers, U.S. City Average, All items,” issued by the Bureau
   of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor, or, if discontinued or no longer published, such
   other governmental index that most closely matches the manner in which inflation had been previously tracked
   as selected by the BOCC. The Decommissioning Plan and Decommissioning Surety shall be re-evaluated every
   three (3) years commencing with the operation of the project by a licensed engineer approved by the BOCC and
   qualified to provide an estimate of the cost of decommissioning of the project and the Net Salvage Value of the
   project (the “Decommissioning Engineer”). A new Decommissioning Security in the revised amount, if any, shall
   be provided within sixty (60) days of the approval of the updated Decommissioning Plan.

B. WASTE REMOVAL. All solid waste whether generated from supplies, equipment, parts, packaging, or operation
   or maintenance of the facility, including old parts and equipment, shall be removed from the site in a timely
   manner. All hazardous waste generated by the operation and maintenance of the facility, including but not limited
   to lubricating materials, shall, be handled in a manner consistent with all local, state and federal rules and
   regulations.


                                                      Page 30 of 33
C. MODIFICATIONS. Any physical modification to the project that alters the mechanical load, mechanical load
   path, nameplate generating capacity, size or location or major electrical components shall require a new
   improvement location permit and/or if there is more than a two percent (2%) increase in total acreage of the
   project. Like-kind replacements that do not have the effects listed above do not require new permitting. Prior to
   making any physical modification (other than a like-kind replacement), the Applicant shall confer with the
   Building Inspector to determine whether the physical modification requires new permitting.

D. INSPECTIONS. Upon request of the Building Official of County, Operator shall provide an annual inspection
   report for all facilities in the project to the Building Official, at Operator’s cost. In addition, the Building Official,
   approved designees, along with licensed third-party engineers/professionals retained by the County for the
   specific purpose of conducting inspections of the project shall have the right, at any reasonable time and with
   sufficient prior notice, to accompany the Applicant, or his agent, on the project premises to inspect the project
   and its construction and maintenance and to identify any necessary repairs. The Applicant of the project may
   retain a licensed third party professional engineer familiar with the applicable systems to prepare and submit to
   the County Building Official a written report which addresses the repairs or alterations requested, and which
   suggest alternate methods for addressing the concerns or provides evidence that said repairs or alterations are
   unnecessary, within thirty (30) days after receiving notice from the County Building Official that repairs or
   alterations are requested, or within a longer period of time mutually acceptable to both parties. The County
   Building Official will consider any such written report and determine whether the repairs or alterations should be
   made as originally requested or as suggested in the written report. In the event of a dispute between the County
   Building Official and the Applicant or a third-party professional engineer retained by them, as to the repairs or
   alterations which are required, the decision of the County Building Official shall be final. These inspections do
   not relieve any liability of the Owner or Operator for damages or injuries arising from or related to the project.
   The Planning Department or designee will inspect and determine compliance with zoning regulations and
   approved development plans and the Planning Department staff shall thereafter make appropriate report(s) to the
   BOCC for action, if any action is necessary.

E. COMPLAINTS. If, after construction, the Applicant receives a written complaint related to interference caused
   by WECS with local broadcast residential television, telecommunication, communication or microwave
   transmissions, the Applicant shall promptly resolve the complaint.

F. AS-BUILT PLANS. The Applicant shall deliver to the Planning Department and to all providers of emergency
   services serving the project area a copy of the as-built site map. Upon request by the local fire department, the
   Applicant shall cooperate with the local fire department to develop or update the fire department’s emergency
   response plan. Nothing in this section shall alleviate the need to comply with all other applicable fire laws and
   regulations.

G. RECORD OF GROUND DISTURBANCE AND ROAD USAGE. On completion of construction the Applicant
   shall submit to the County Road Department a site map detailing all ground disturbed through construction
   activity, surface and subsurface as-built infrastructure and all routes over which trucks and equipment traveled.
   The scale and format of the submitted map shall conform to the County Road Departments specifications.

H. LIABILITY FOR DRAINAGE. For a period of five (5) years following the completion of construction the
   Applicant shall be liable for all costs of repair to County drain tiles, regulated drains and ditches and other County
   regulated surface and subsurface structures and private tiles located in the public right of way within fifty (50)
   feet of the routes and disturbed ground. This period shall be extended for any damages occurring as a result of
   operations, replacement or maintenance of the project after the five-year (5) period.

I.   ABANDONMENT. A WECS or any individual WECS Tower constituting a portion of the project is presumed at
     the end of its useful life and/or abandoned if the WECS or the individual WECS Turbine generates no electricity
     for a continuing period of twelve (12) months. This presumption may be rebutted by submitting to the BOCC for
     approval and within ninety (90) days of submission obtaining approval thereof of a plan outlining the steps and
     schedules for returning the WECS or individual turbine to service. Any WECS or individual turbine or which
     pursuant to the terms hereof has either reached the end of its useful life and/or is abandoned pursuant to the terms
     hereof shall be subject to removal pursuant to the Decommissioning Plan.

                                                        Page 31 of 33
J. UNSAFE STRUCTURES. Any WECS, WECS Tower, or structure thereof declared to be unsafe by the County
   Building Official or the County Code Compliance by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation,
   obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster, damage or abandonment is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall
   be abated by repair or rehabilitation within 12 months or be deemed abandoned and at the end of its useful life
   and subject to Decommissioning. Nothing herein prevents the County Building Official or Code Compliance
   Officer from issuing an immediate cease use order as to any structure that he or she determines is unsafe during
   the repair or rehabilitation period.

17.10.330 POST CONSTRUCTION MODIFICATIONS:
Any post-construction proposed non-material modifications, alterations, expansions, or changes of any type or size
to the Final Development Plan must be approved by the BOCC. All material post construction proposed changes must
apply in the same way as a new project. The Planning Director shall have the authority and discretion, considering all
relevant factors to determine whether the proposed post-construction change is material.
17.10.340 NO PREEMPTION: Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to preempt other applicable state and federal
laws and regulations, except to the extent this Ordinance provides higher or more stringent standards.
17.10.350 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
A. Any person, firm, or corporation who, after fourteen (14) days of receiving written notification of violation of
   any of the provision(s) of this chapter, knowingly continues to violate said provision(s) of this chapter is guilty of
   a misdemeanor.

B. Each such person is guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which violation
   of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued, or permitted.
C. Upon conviction of any violation of this chapter, such person(s) shall be punished by a fine of not more than one
   thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment for not more than six (6) months in the County Jail, or by both
   such fine and imprisonment.

D. Any building or structure hereafter set up, erected, built, moved or maintained or any use of property hereafter
   contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall be, and the same is declared to be, unlawful and a public nuisance,
   and the County may immediately commence action or actions, proceeding or proceedings, for the abatement
   thereof in a manner provided by law and shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court or courts as may
   have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such building, structure or use and restrain and enjoin
   any person from setting up, erecting, building, moving and maintaining any such building or structure, or using
   any property contrary to the provisions of this chapter.

E. Unpermitted Work and Use of the Property:
    1. Any building or structure hereafter set up, erected, built, moved or maintained or any use of property hereafter
       contrary to the provisions of this chapter without the required approvals shall be subject to and the persons,
       firms, companies, partnerships or corporations responsible for a violation of this Code shall pay a violation fee
       in addition to the required application fee, as well as be subject to any other applicable enforcement measures
       provided in this chapter of the Nye County Code. The violation fee shall be up to four (4) times the amount of
       the land use application fee as set forth in the adopted fee schedule. The payment of such violation fee shall
       not exempt any persons, firms, companies, partnerships, or corporations from compliance with other
       provisions of this code nor from any other penalty prescribed by law. For the purpose of this chapter a firm is
       defined as a business made up of two or more, in any combination, of the following: persons, companies,
       partnerships or corporate entities.
    2. The planning department may, in considering the amount of the violation fee to assess, take into consideration
       whether the zoning administrator or their designee has determined that a permit application has been pursued
       in a timely manner and in good faith by the persons, firm or corporation responsible for a violation of this
       Code, and whether the assessment of a reduced violation fee is in the best interest of County.
 F. Withhold Permit/Application:

                                                      Page 32 of 33
     1. County may deny or withhold all permits, certificates, applications, or other forms of authorization on any
        land or structure or improvements upon a determination that there is an uncorrected violation of a provision
        of this Code or of a condition or qualification of a permit, certificate, application, approval, or other
        authorization previously granted by provision shall apply regardless of whether the current owner or
        Applicant is responsible for the violation in question.
     2. County may deny or withhold all permits, certificates, applications, or other forms of authorization on any
        land or structure, or improvements owned or being developed by persons, firms, companies, partnerships, or
        corporations who own, develop, or otherwise cause an uncorrected violation of a provision of this code or of
        a condition or qualification of a permit, certificate, application, or other authorization previously granted by
        County. This provision shall apply regardless of whether the property for which the permit or other approval
        is sought if the property in violation.
     3. County will expediently address any withheld applications with Applicant within three (3) working days after
        receiving an application, pursuant to NRS 278.02327.
 G. Appeals: Any person who is aggrieved by a final decision of the BOCC may appeal that decision to the District
     Court by filing a petition for judicial review within twenty-five (25) days after the date of the filing of notice of
     the decision with the Clerk of the BOCC.

SEVERABILITY: If any provision of this ordinance or amendments thereto, or the application to any person, thing
or circumstance is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the validity or provisions or applications of the
ordinance or amendments thereto which can be given effect without the invalid provision or applications, and to this
end the provision of this ordinance and amendments thereto are declared to be severable,
CONSTITUTIONALITY. If any section, clause, or phrase of this ordinance shall be declared unconstitutional by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provision of this ordinance shall continue in full force and effect.
EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after passage, approval, and
publication as required by law, to wit, from and after the ______ day of _____________, 2024.


Proposed on the _____ day of _________, 2024.
Proposed by:
Adopted on the _______ day of _________, 2024.
        Vote: Ayes:                       Commissioner(s):
                 Nays:                    Commissioner(s):
                 Absent:                  Commissioner(s):


BY:________________________                                ATTEST:______________________
   Debra Strickland, Chair                                             Cori Friedhof
   Nye County Board of County                                         Clerk and Ex-Officio
   Commissioners                                                      Clerk of the Board




                                                      Page 33 of 33
