City of Troy
City Council Meeting
Monday, June 15, 2026
Location: Council Chambers, Municipal Building, 116 E. Market Street, Troy IL 62294
Call to Order and Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Nonn called the City Council meeting to order at 6:30pm and led the aldermen and others present in
the Pledge of Allegiance.
Roll Call in Alphabetical Order
Council Members Present: Mayor David Nonn; Aldermen Dan Dawson, Tim Flint, Sam Italiano, Debbie
Knoll, Heather Stirling, and Troy Turner
Absent: Elizabeth Hellrung, Nathan Henderson
Other City Officials Present: City Administrator Jay Keeven, City Clerk Kim Thomas, City Treasurer
Kelly Huelsmann, Chief of Police Chris Wasser, Assistant Chief of Police Andy Evans, Public Works
Director Derek Alldredge, City Engineer Tom Cissell, and City Attorney Fred Keck
Reading and Approval of Minutes
Motion: To approve the minutes of the June 1, 2026, City Council meeting as presented.
Moved by Italiano. Second by Turner. Approved by voice vote.
Communications – to be provided by the City Clerk - none
Citizen Participation
Derek Ramert, a member of “Troy Citizens for Responsible Growth”, offered to provide a survey to Troy
citizens, asking for their input on city plans for growth. He said he would like to share the results of the
survey with the council in the form of a workshop. The meeting would take 30-40 minutes.
Mayor's Comments
Upcoming Events
The city’s July 4th celebration will be held at Tri-Township Park, 1:00pm to 10:00pm. This is the country’s
250th anniversary, so the fireworks show and the rest of the festivities will be the largest the city has ever
had. It should be a lot of fun.
City Administrator and City Attorney Comments
City Administrator Comments
- Mr. Keeven informed the council that IML’s Annual Conference will be held September 17 – 19, 2026 in
Chicago. Those who wish to attend should contact him.
- Zoey’s Café on East Market Street has closed. Scott Verogy, a financial/wealth management advisor, has a
contract on the building and hopes to close in mid-July. He has a design for the front of the building and will
be submitting a storefront grant application to improve the appearance of the building. This application will
be considered by the finance committee.
- Anna Jones (spa owner on Market Street) also has a storefront grant application for signage and the repair
of the railing in front of the building.
City Attorney Comments
Mr. Keck has been working on several easements (permanent, temporary, and construction) and right-of-way
transfers with Mr. Cissell.
Consent Agenda for May 2026
1. Treasurer Reports
2. Building & Zoning Reports

                                                                       City Council Meeting, 3/16/2026, Page 1 of 3
3. Troy Police Department Report
4. Water Plant & Wastewater Treatment Plant Report
Motion: To approve the consent agenda as presented.
Moved by Turner. Second by Italiano. Vote: Motion passed. (Aye = 6; Nay = 0)
Aye: Dawson, Flint, Italiano, Knoll, Stirling, Turner. Nay: none.
Administrative and Community Services Committee Report
(Due to the absence of Mrs. Byrd, the report was provided by Mr. Keeven and Mr. Cissell)
Results of the Planning Commission Meeting held on May 14, 2026
The planning commission met last Thursday. Jami Stone will be resigning. Liz Compton was elected as the
new chair. There is a special use permit resolution for a citizen who wants to keep hens on his property. The
commission recommends approval. The commission also recommended approval on two ordinances. Both
are for fee-related amendments to the code. The first is for planned developments/green spaces and the
second consolidates, adds permit fees, and provides references for the fee structure.
There are other ordinances coming in the future regarding parking for shared spaces and to add a new
requirement for two readings of any ordinance addressing industrial zoning.
The next planning commission meeting is scheduled for Thursday, July 9, 2026 at 6:30pm.
Building and Zoning Director Report
An update to the data center moratorium ordinance is planned. When the data center moratorium ordinance
expires later this year, another six-month moratorium will be submitted to the council for approval. The city
is waiting to see what changes are being made to data center guidelines at the state level (during the veto
session) before updating the city code.
The Building and Zoning Department is working on building plans for SRS, civil development planning
stage for AirCo, and the final inspection of addition for Unitech. They are also working on Hampton Glen
Villas, Stonebriar Manors – Phase 3, and Bella Rose (on Collinsville Road).
Finance and Economic Development Committee Report
(Due to the absence of Aldermen Henderson and Hellrung, the report was provided by Alderman Dawson)
Bills to be Approved for Payment –June 2026 (Aged Obligation Report)
Computer-run checks in the amount of $475,813.68, manual checks written in May in the amount of
$394,790.17, and payroll expenses for May in the amount of $422,390.37.
Motion: To approve the Aged Obligation Report as presented, and pay bills in the amount of $1,292,994.22.
Moved by Dawson. Second by Turner. Vote: Motion passed. (Aye = 6; Nay = 0)
Aye: Dawson, Flint, Italiano, Knoll, Stirling, Turner. Nay: none.
City Treasurer Report - none
Law Enforcement & Emergency Services Committee Report
Chief of Police Report
Chief Wasser is working on repair costs for the north wall water damage of police department offices in the
city building. He has also spoken with FGM on estimates for the department’s proposed expansion.
Police department planning for the 4th of July celebration at Tri-Township Park is almost complete. They
expect crowds to be much larger than last year, so every officer will be working.
Sergeants Callahan and Cripe completed the 22-week Staff and Command School. Both officers finished
with scores in the high 90s.
Alderwoman Stirling asked the chief whether the primary streets (Market and Main) should be closed for 1st
Friday events. Chief Wasser replied that Main Street can be partially shut down, but Market Street, which is
an Illinois State route (Highway 162), would require IDOT approval. Also, if Market Street and Main Street
are shut down, the other roads in the downtown area will not be able to handle the traffic. It would also limit
emergency vehicle response, if needed.
Public Works Committee Report
Results of the Public Works Committee Meeting held on June 15, 2026 at 5:45pm
The Public Works Committee held a meeting earlier tonight to discuss changes in water and sewer rates to
help fund the upcoming wastewater treatment plant upgrade and expansion. They also discussed an
amendment to the city’s contract with Benton Engineering.


                                                                      City Council Meeting, 3/16/2026, Page 2 of 3
City Engineer Report
Mr. Cissell briefed the following:
Bouse Road Phase 1 – Chamberlain Road to Whitworth Drive – A preliminary road plan has been developed
and will be presented to subdivisions in the area. A public meeting is tentatively scheduled for Friday,
July 17th at Father McGivney High School.
Troy-O’Fallon Road Sidewalk Extension – US-40 to Country Lane – The city approved a joint funding
agreement which was forwarded to IDOT for processing. Authorization was given today to begin design.
Zenk Road Reconstruction – Phase 2 (Oakwood Drive to Redbud Lane) – The project is complete. A final
“walk-through” is scheduled for Wednesday, June 17th.
Wickliffe Street Reconstruction – Sarah Street to Market Street (PASER) – Project, which will replace the oil
and chip road with pavement, is scheduled for bid opening on June 25th.
Downtown Parking Lot (107 N. Main Street – Demolition of the house and parking lot plans are complete.
The parking lot construction (25 spaces) has a July 2nd bid opening scheduled.
Easements – There are three projects that he and Mr. Keck are negotiating multiple easements on: The
downtown streetscape (Border Street to Main Street), East Market Street, and Riggin Road.
Public Works Director Report
Mr. Alldredge reported that the street crew accomplished a large concrete pour on the north end of Franklin
Avenue. Work was completed on Friday.
Reports of Special Committees (as needed) – none
Unfinished/New Business - none
Ordinances and Resolutions called by the City Clerk, with Citizen Participation
1. Ordinance 2026-34 – An Ordinance Amending 154.064, Planned Development (PD) Overlay, of the City
Code Regarding the Allocation of Improvement Fees
Motion: To approve Ordinance 2026-34 as presented.
Moved by Turner. Second by Stirling.
Discussion: None.
Vote: Motion passed. (Aye = 6; Nay = 0)
Aye: Dawson, Flint, Italiano, Knoll, Stirling, Turner. Nay: none
2. Ordinance 2026-35 – An Ordinance Amending 153.120, Schedule of Fees, of the City Code Regarding Fee
Schedule Reference
Motion: To approve Ordinance 2026-35 as presented.
Moved by Italiano. Second by Turner.
Discussion: None.
Vote: Motion passed. (Aye = 6; Nay = 0)
Aye: Dawson, Flint, Italiano, Knoll, Stirling, Turner. Nay: none
8. Resolution 2026-30 – A Resolution Approving the Special Use Permit for Jarrod Mayes to Allow the
Keeping of Four (4) Hens on Property Located at 417 Troy Avenue, Troy, Illinois
Motion: To approve Resolution 2026-30 as presented.
Moved by Turner. Second by Dawson.
Discussion: None.
Vote: Motion passed. (Aye = 6; Nay = 0)
Aye: Dawson, Flint, Italiano, Knoll, Stirling, Turner. Nay: none
Closed Session - none
Adjournment
Moved by Italiano. Second by Stirling. Approved by voice vote of the aldermen.
Meeting adjourned at 6:57pm.
    --signed --
__________________________
Kimberly Thomas, City Clerk
                7/6/2026
Date Approved: ____________


                                                                    City Council Meeting, 3/16/2026, Page 3 of 3
