TOWN OF WESTPORT
TOWN BOARD – Monday, April 6, 2026

A regular meeting of the Town Board was called to order at 6:01 pm by Chair John Cuccia in the
Community Meeting Room of the Bernard J. Kennedy Administration Building/Town Hall. Members
Present: Cuccia, Pichette (via Zoom), Manering, Crowell, and Werner. Members Absent: None. Also
present: Dean Grosskopf, Bill Cole, Jessica Duffrin (via Zoom), Sarah Piersma and Lynn Persson.

Grosskopf confirmed that this meeting conforms with open meetings law.

There was no Public Comment on Matters not on the agenda.

The minutes of the March 16, 2026, Town Board Meeting were approved on a motion by Pichette, second
Manering.

Upon a motion by Werner, second Manering, and a unanimous roll call vote, the Board adjourned into
closed session at 6:04 pm, pursuant to:
        Wis. Stat. 19.85(1)(g) to confer with legal counsel for the governing body who is rendering oral or
        written advice concerning strategy to be adopted with respect to litigation in which it is likely to be
        involved, Town of Westport vs. Swanson matters.
The Board returned to open session pursuant to Sec. 19.85(2) at 6:43 pm on a motion by Manering, second
Crowell.

No action was taken on items discussed in closed session.

Grosskopf gave a brief introduction to the discussion of a moratorium on approving data centers in the
Town of Westport. Attorney Cole stated that the ordinance was modeled after a similar moratorium passed
by the City of Madison. The board approved Ordinance 26-01 which includes a 12-month moratorium on
data centers exceeding 10,000 square feet, on a motion by Werner, second Crowell, with Manering
dissenting based on her wish to have the Ordinance apply to all data centers regardless of size.

Grosskopf reported that nothing has been filed for the Plan Commission Meeting for action in April, and
he was also not aware of anything that would come before the Waunakee/Westport Joint Plan Commission
or the Middleton/Westport Joint Zoning Commission in April. The Waunakee Area EMS Commission will
meet on April 9, 2026. Crowell reported on the Waunakee Fire District. Pichette and Grosskopf reported
on the Middleton Fire District Commission. Werner affirmed that the Historic Preservation Commission
has two State historical markers in production and they should be available for installation this Spring with
discussion of a dedication ceremony later in the year. Gary Becker was also in attendance at the meeting
and reviewed a map of historical places that he has put together for the incorporation. With the help of
Tracy Will, Becker will be able to add more information to this documentation. Manering reported that the
Park Committee met, and that this year the focus will be on maintenance and making sure the park’s
equipment is in good working order, rather than on new projects. Cuccia reported that the Audit
Committee reviewed the current bills and found all to be in order.

Current bills were paid as presented by Grosskopf and recommended by the Audit Committee, on a motion
by Cuccia, second Crowell.

For miscellaneous business and forthcoming events, Grosskopf reminded the Board of the upcoming
Annual Meeting on April 21, 2026, and that The Clean Lake Alliance Breakfast is coming up on May 13,
2026, for those interested.

The meeting was adjourned at 7:07 pm, on a motion by Werner, second Manering.

Dean A. Grosskopf
Administrator/Clerk-Treasurer

F:\1 DEAN - JESS DOCUMENTS\Town Board\Town Board Minutes 4.6.2026.docx5/23/2024 12:48 PM
