                       Town of Hampden Board Meeting June 16, 2026
                          Hampden Town Hall - N1291 Cty Road N
                Mailing Address - N2455 County Road A, Columbus WI 53925

Agenda/Meeting Notice Posted - Posted at the Hampden Town Hall, Leeds/Hampden Recycling Center
and town's website https://townofhampden.wi.gov.

Call to Order - Chairman Tuschen called the meeting to order at Call to Order at 5:31pm.
Roll call - Town board members present - Chairman Tuschen, Supervisor Taylor Dahl, Supervisor Bill
Hoffman, Clerk Nanette Hensen, Treasurer Lori Toutant, Plan Commission member Tony Trapp, and Task
Force member Ann Plata.
Pledge of Allegiance - Led by Supervisor Dahl.
Citizen Comments/Correspondents/Announcements -
     Wind turbine updates
          o Joint Board & Plan Commission meeting activities discussed
          o Operating agreement discussion
                  Initial discussions with Alliant were unfavorable
                  WT 10 and 106 will not be moved
                  Hensen will send Trapp additional items
                  Alternate option - join with other groups already included in the intervenor process
                  Tuschen and Trapp to talk to other townships
                  Tabled final decision until next month
          o Environmental impact study and comment periods scheduled
          o Dahl made a motion for Trapp to represent the Town Board's interest for wind tower
             negotiations. Seconded by Tuschen. Hoffman abstained. Motion passes.
     Ordinance No. 18 Town of Hampden Data Center Temporary Moratorium passed 5/26/26.
          o Trapp discussed with county representative regarding their position on data centers. County
             position - decisions on data centers fall under local control. Data centers require industrial
             zoning, which the Town does not have.
Minutes – Dahl made a motion to approve minutes from both the May Board and Special 5/26/26
meetings. Seconded by Hoffman. Motion passes.

Treasurer's Report - Dahl made a motion to approve the Treasurer's report for May. Seconded by
Hoffman. Motion passes. Total Funds $382,215.15 (Checking Account $43,966.51, Government Pool Fund
$316,349.87, cemetery CD $21,898.77).
Payment of Bills - Request authorization to pay a total of $25,439.37. Dahl made a motion to approve
payments. Seconded by Hoffman . Motion passes.




                                                                                                         1
      Maintenance of effort filed 6/5/26
      Snowplowing comparison TNT vs county discussed.
      Workers Compensation insurance increased significantly. Hensen to contact Rural Insurance with
       the potential to bid out insurance.
Chairman Report -
    WTA article on Town Emergency Plan. Hensen to review county emergency plan and will add to
      plan commission meeting at a later date.
    Picnic tables for the shelter - Hoffman will order six 6-foot tables. Shelter is wired up with lights.

Plan Commission -
    Final Mickelson CSM - Tuschen and Hensen signed and provided to surveyor
    AT&T county driveway permit (Sanderson) - Tuschen to follow-up
    Lifestar reported no town calls
    Recycling Clean Sweep produced one full dumpster. Participation was lower than in prior years.
      Consider adjusting schedule to every 3 years or every other year.

Road Maintenance -
    County Spraying map discussed
    WisDOT WISLR road request discussed

Other Business - Dahl and Trapp volunteered to move dirt from town shelter to Cole Cemetery. Dahl will
work on landscaping.

Dahl made a motion to adjourn. Hoffman seconded the motion. Meeting adjourned at 6:48pm.

Next Town Board Meeting 7/21/26 5:30pm at the town hall.




                                                                                                              2
