ORDINANCE NO. _1 3
TOWN OF HAMPDEN DATA CENTER TEMPORARY MORATORIUM

The Town Board of the Town of Hampden does hereby ordain that this Town of Hampden Data
Center Temporary Moratorium is hereby created to provide as fol!ows:

ARTICLE 1. NECESSITY AND PURPOSE

A moratorium is necessary with respect to the issuance of rezoning approvals and subdivision
approvals for Data Centers as a principal and primary use. This moratorium is necessary to
protect the health, safety and general welfare of the Town of Hampden residents, businesses and
visitors. Such moratorium shall be in effect within any area over which the Town has
jurisdiction, and would otherwise be zoned allowing any use as described in Sec. 12.155.06 of
the Columbia County Zoning Ordinances.

The purpose of this temporary moratorium is to provide the Towr of Hampden with adequate
time to assess the impacts and secondary effects of Data Centers and promote meaningful
development and implementation of ordinances with regard to Data Centers, along with updates
to the Town’s comprehensive plan with respect to this use.

ARTICLE 2. AUTHORITY

The Town of Hampden relies on the authority granted pursuant tc Wis. Stat. §66.1002, and all
other sources of authority that authorize the adoption of this ordinance.

ARTICLE 3. LENGTH OF TIME

This moratorium shall be in effect for twelve (12) months following the effective date of this
ordinance or until an ordinance related to Data Centers is adopted and takes effect, whichever is
earlier. This moratorium ordinance may be amended by the Town prior to its expiration for an
additional time period of up to 6 months pursuant to Wis. Stat. §66.1002(3)(b)2.

Such length of time is necessary for the Town of Hampden to devote sufficient resources to
properly research and draft an ordinance providing comprehensive and appropriate regulations of
Data Centers.

ARTICLE 4. DIRECTION

In order to adequately complete such an ordinance providing comprehensive and appropriate
regulations of Data Centers during the period of this moratorium. the Town of Hampden shail
engage Town staff and consultants as needed to study the impacts. of this use on the Town’s
infrastructure and comprehensive land use planning. It is the intention of the Town Board to
amend the Town of Hampden Ordinances to adopt an ordinance pertaining to Data Centers, and
prepare revisions to the Town’s comprehensive plan as needed to address this use, before the
expiration of this moratorium.

Page | of 2


ARTICLE 5. EXEMPTIONS

During the duration of the temporary moratorium, existing Data Ccnters shall be nonconforming
uses and therefore may undergo structural repairs or structural alte ations to the building or
structure provided they do not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the toval assessed value of the
building or structure.

The Temporary Moratorium established in this ordinance shall not apply and the Town of
Hampden may accept, process and, if appropriate, approve rezonirgs and subdivisions for Data
Centers that serve another principal use allowed on the zoning lot.

ARTICLE 5. DEFINITIONS

“Data Center” means a facility whose primary and principal Use is for the storage,
management, processing and transmission of digital data, v/hich houses computer or
network equipment, systems, servers, appliances and other associated components related
to digital data operations. The facility may also include air handlers, power generators,
water cooling and storage facilities, utility substations, and other associated utility
infrastructure to support sustained operations at the data ceater. Data centers may also
contain accessory office uses necessary to monitor and maiiage sustained operations at
the data center.

“Town” as used in this Ordinance means Town of Hampden.

ARTICLE 6 EFFECTIVE DATE

This Moratorium Ordinance shall be effective upon passage, posti1g and publication, as provided
by law.

Dated \ We } NV ws on By: Town of Hampden Town Board
oo
OSA TDL 2

David Tuschen, Town Chair Taylor Dah|, Town Supervisor
William Hoffman, Town Supervisor Nanette Hensen. Town Cterk

Page 2 of 2
