ORDINANCE NO. 04172026
cas ANCE ESTABLISHING INTERIM ZONING IN THE TOWN OF
» GRANT COUNTY, WISCONSIN
WHEREAS, the Town electors authorized the Town Board to exercise village powers
pursuant to Wis. Stat. § 60.10(2)(c) at a special town meeting on Ha vay a 2) ae and

WHEREAS, the Town electors authorized the Town Board,to exercise zoning authority

pursuant to Wis. Stat. § 60.10(2)(h) at a special town meeting on Aci | Q3, 20, OD ; and

WHEREAS, the Town has withdrawn from Grant County zoning by not adopting the
June 20, 2017 comprehensive revision to the Grant County Zoning Code; and

Ww eS there is no zoning ordinance in effect in the Town of
epee ; and

WHEREAS, the Town Board of the Town of beaten intends to adopt a
comprehensive zoning ordinance and believes that in the interim the status quo should be
maintained:

NOW, THEREFORE, Pursuant to the powers granted to the Town Board pursuant to
Wis. Stats. §§ 60.10(2)(c) and (h), 60.62, 61.35, and 62.23(7)(da), the Town Board of the Town
of Yd , Grant County, Wisconsin, do ordain as follows:

1. re us' nee estate and appurtenant structures located thereon within the Town
Libs shall not be changed from the use existing on the date of

te ordinance.

2. No buildings shall be erected within the Town of Bow fount which

would alter or change any existing use.

3. Exceptions to this ordinance may be granted by the Town Board, upon application of
the owner, if in the opinion of the Board, the proposed use would not be contrary to
any comprehensive zoning ordinance under consideration. No exception shall be
granted for a large-scale data center.

4. Definitions:

a. A “data center” is defined as one or more facilities or an array of connected
facilities, whose principal use is for the storage, management, processing, and
transmission of digital data, which houses computer or network equipment
systems, servers, appliances and other associated components related to digital
data operations. The facility may also include air handlers, power generators,
water cooling and storage facilities, utility substations, and other associated
utility infrastructure to support sustained operations at the data center. Data

-1-


centers may also contain accessory office uses necessary to monitor and
manage sustained operations at the data center.

b. A “large-scale data center” is defined as the use of a data center as a principal
and primary use, when it has a floor area greater than 10,000 square feet
contained within a single building or collection of buildings or exceed 5 MW
of electric power demand.

5. This ordinance shall become null and void upon the adoption and publication of a
zoning ordinance or two (2) years from the effective date hereof, whichever occurs
first.

6. This ordinance shall be effective upon its passage and posting as required by law.

Adopted and approved this Wa day of i la vi, ly.

COUNTERSIGNED:

<Town Clerk

Date adopted: fa ay ( ZOE
Date recorded: Ii iI OD
Date notice posted: May. ¥Y 2026

Date affidavit filed: y XK 202b
Effective date: 4 : 2O2G

‘
