                                   ORDINANCE NO. 02-2026

               AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
               COVINGTON, WASHINGTON, RENEWING ORDINANCE NO.
               07-2024, EXTENDING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON
               BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM FACILITY
               APPLICATIONS FOR SIX MONTHS; REQUIRING A PUBLIC
               HEARING; ADOPTING FINDINGS OF FACT; PROVIDING
               FOR SEVERABILITY; AND ESTABLISHING AN EFFECTIVE
               DATE.

                WHEREAS, within the express terms of the Covington Municipal Code (“CMC”)
and the Growth Management Act, the Washington State Legislature has conferred upon the
governing bodies of Washington code cities the right to establish and adopt moratoria related to
land uses, as set forth in RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW 36.70A.390; and

               WHEREAS, a moratorium is a pause on all new development, land use, and
construction applications, which allows cities to consider new development and zoning
regulations; and

               WHEREAS, Battery Energy Storage System (“BESS”) facilities are installations
designed to store electrical energy for later use, typically consisting of batteries, power conversion
systems, and control equipment; and

                WHEREAS, the primary function of BESS facilities is to store excess electricity
generated during periods of low demand or high renewable energy production, such as from solar
or wind sources. This stored energy can then be discharged when demand is high or when
renewable energy generation is low, helping to stabilize the electrical grid and improve overall
energy reliability; and

        WHEREAS, time is needed for the City of Covington (“City”) to study whether battery
energy storage system facilities are compatible and should be allowed within City limits, either as
a permitted or conditional use, and if so, in which zone(s) and whether current zoning regulations
in Title 18 CMC and/or other official controls and development standards need to be updated to
ensure such facilities can be safely and appropriately sited within the City; and

        WHEREAS, the City’s development regulations, and specifically the definition of “Utility
Facility” in CMC 18.20.050 and the permitted and conditional uses provided in CMC Chapter
18.125.040, have not been updated to reflect recent technological changes and business models in
the energy storage and electric utility industry; and

        WHEREAS, applying these outdated regulations in Title 18 CMC to new technologies and
business models could lead to approval of battery energy storage system facility projects that are
undesirable, unsafe, and/or inconsistent with long-term planning goals and objectives of the City,
particularly when the existing regulations have not been reviewed and updated for best practices


                                                                                           Page 1 of 5
nor reconsidered in light of technological changes and potential effects such facilities have on
surrounding areas and community resources; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Covington (“City Council”) has determined
the following facts, and identified the following unknown risks and economic factors, that may be
relevant in assessing the desirability of, and siting concerns associated with, battery energy storage
system facilities in the City:
              A. Battery energy storage systems are essentially rechargeable battery arrays that
                  store excess energy when demand on the electrical grid is low and can feed power
                  back into the system when demand is high (or energy production is low).
              B. The elements used in batteries can pose risks of explosion from overheating and
                  of environmental contamination.
              C. Battery energy storage system facilities present fire hazards that can take weeks
                  to extinguish, requiring massive volumes of water and chemicals to bring under
                  control.
              D. Battery energy storage system facilities are sites where hazardous chemicals such
                  as cyanide and hydrofluoric acid are present and thus pose the potential for
                  discharge to surrounding property, air, and groundwater in the event of a fire.
              E. Battery energy storage system facilities create a potential for air quality hazards
                  in the event of a fire.
              F. Battery energy storage system facilities may produce noise and visual impacts
                  that are not currently well understood by the city.
              G. Battery energy storage system facilities may produce impacts on wildlife that are
                  not currently well understood by the city.
              H. Battery energy storage system facilities may be more appropriate for heavy
                  industrial zones than commercial, neighborhood retail offices, or residential
                  zones.
              I. Battery energy storage system facilities may create additional strain on local
                  emergency response agencies and their personnel.
              J. The Washington State Department of Ecology is beginning to compile guidance
                  on battery energy storage system facility sites that the City wishes to study before
                  updating its zoning and other regulations applicable to battery energy storage
                  system facilities.
              K. The Washington State Legislature adopted House Bill 1216 in 2023, and new
                  Washington State regulations codified at WAC 51.54A.0322 which are intended
                  to minimize the risks of lithium-ion battery energy storage system facilities
                  through fire safety requirements and construction standards and will take effect
                  soon. The City desires to study these new laws and regulations to determine what
                  effects they will have on local regulatory authority. King County is studying
                  whether its codes need updating to add conditions for approving these types of
                  facilities, including zoning, safety, and insurance requirements. The City desires
                  to learn about King County’s regulatory initiatives before finalizing updates to
                  the City’s zoning regulations and official controls.
              L. Puget Sound Energy (“PSE”), which is conducting Requests For Proposals for
                  third-party private entities to develop energy storage facilities connected via high-
                  voltage transmission lines to PSE’s regional substations, has published safety and
                                                                                            Page 2 of 5
                reliability requirements for such facilities that need to be explored and better
                understood before the City can determine whether to permit battery energy
                storage system facilities in the City, and under what conditions.
             M. It is unknown what fiscal or economic development benefits would flow to the
                City if battery energy storage system facilities were permitted within the City or
                which zone(s) would be most advantageous for siting them. The City needs to
                investigate and analyze potential economic impacts and tax revenues associated
                with such projects.

        WHEREAS, due to the unique characteristics of battery energy storage system facilities,
certain existing requirements in the CMC may not appropriately address or mitigate the community
impacts and risks such facilities may present; and

        WHEREAS, processing applications for land use approvals, development permits, and
related applications or code interpretations for battery energy storage system facilities under
existing zoning regulations and other official controls could potentially result in approvals of
undesirable and incompatible development until such time that the City has properly reviewed its
regulations and implemented any zoning code revisions or additional controls deemed necessary
and proper for the health, safety, and general welfare of the City and its residents; and

      WHEREAS, the City’s Comprehensive Plan update includes analysis and
recommendations for needed zoning code amendments to implement the Land Use element and
Economic Development element of the Comprehensive; and

        WHEREAS, it would be an efficient use of resources and an appropriate exercise of its
planning authority under the Growth Management Act and Chapter 35A.63 RCW for the City to
integrate an analysis of whether, and under what regulatory parameters, battery energy storage
system facilities should be allowed uses within the City with the City’s ongoing work on the Land
Use chapter and other elements of the Comprehensive Plan and development regulations; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has significant concerns about whether battery energy
storage system facilities can be appropriately reviewed and analyzed under current regulations and
finds that unless the City acts immediately to preserve the status quo, there are likely to be adverse
impacts on the City and the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens; and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW 36.70A.390, the City may adopt a
moratorium that is effective for no longer than six months but may adopt a moratorium that is
effective for up to 12 months if a work plan is developed for conducting appropriate studies and
analyses over that longer period; and

        WHEREAS, to promote public health, safety, and welfare, the City Council deems it
necessary and proper to impose a moratorium on land use and development permit applications
related to battery energy storage system facilities for a period of 12 months; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 07-2024, which imposed a 12-month
moratorium on the acceptance, processing, and/or approval of applications for building and land
                                                                                           Page 3 of 5
development permits and related land use decisions for battery energy storage system facilities
proposed to be located in any zone within the City of Covington, and

       WHERAS, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 03-2025 which renewed Ordinance
No. 07.2024 for an additional six month; and

       WHERAS, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 09-2025 which renewed Ordinance
No. 07.2024 for an additional six month; and

       WHEREAS, the findings of fact in Ordinance No. 07-2024, No. 03-2025, and No. 09-2025
remain true and are incorporated by this reference; and

        WHEREAS, the City possesses land use jurisdiction and regulatory authority over the
City’s incorporated lands; and

      WHEREAS, on April 14, 2026, in accordance with RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW
36.70A.390, the Council conducted a public hearing in conjunction with the adoption of a six-
month moratorium renewal; and

       WHEREAS, the adoption of this moratorium is exempt from the threshold determination
requirements under the State Environmental Policy Act; and

        WHEREAS, the moratorium imposed herein promotes the public good and is necessary
for the protection of public health, property, safety, and welfare, and

        NOW, THEREFORE, The City Council of the City of Covington, Washington, do ordain
as follows:

       Section 1. Findings of Fact. The recitals set forth above are hereby adopted as the City
Council’s findings of fact. Council may, in its discretion, adopt additional findings of fact at an
additional public hearing.

       Section 2. Renewal and Effective Period. Ordinance No. 09-2025 is hereby adopted and
renewed for a period of six months from the effective date of this ordinance, unless earlier
repealed, renewed, or modified by Council as provided by State law.

       Section 3. Incorporation. Ordinance No. 09-2025 is incorporated by reference.

       Section 4. Public Hearing. The Council held the required public hearing on April 14,
2026, concurrently with the consideration of this ordinance.

        Section 5. Severability. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
ordinance, or its application to any person or situation, be declared unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid for any reason, or should any portion of this ordinance be pre-empted by state or federal
law or regulation, such decision or preemption shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this ordinance or its application to other persons or situation. The City Council of the
                                                                                          Page 4 of 5
City of Covington hereby declares that it would have adopted this ordinance and each section,
subsection, sentence, clauses, phrase, or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.

        Section 6. Corrections. Upon the approval of the city attorney, the city clerk and the
codifiers of this ordinance are authorized to make any necessary corrections to this ordinance
including, but not limited to, the correction of scrivener’s/clerical errors, references, ordinance
numbering, section/subsection numbers, and any reference thereto.

        Section 7. Ratification. Any act consistent with the authority and prior to the effective date
of this ordinance is hereby ratified and affirmed.

       Section 8. Effective Date. This ordinance shall be in full effect five (5) days after passage
and publication, as provided by law. A summary of this ordinance may be published in lieu of
publishing the ordinance in its entirety.

       Passed by the City Council of the City of Covington this 14th day of April, 2026.

       Signed in authentication of its passage this 14th day of April, 2026.




                                                      Sean Smith, Mayor

                                                      EFFECTIVE: April 25, 2026
                                                      PUBLISHED: April 20, 2026
AUTHENTICATED:


Krista Bates, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

/s/ Mark Orthmann, as authorized by email on April 14, 2026
Mark Orthmann, City Attorney




                                                                                           Page 5 of 5
