                     Chris Jordan, District 1 | Amber Waldref, District 2
                   1116 WEST BROADWAY AVENUE, SPOKANE, WA 99260

DATE: AUGUST 18, 2026                                                        CONTACT: Chris Jordan
                                                                                  Cell: (509) 998-0461
                                                                              cloe@spokanecounty.org


                                                                         CONTACT: Amber Waldref
                                                                                 Cell: (509) 998-0195
                                                                     mdombrowski@spokanecounty.org



  Spokane County Commissioners Chris Jordan and Amber Waldref
       Commend Passage of County Data Center Moratorium
SPOKANE COUNTY, WA – Today, the Board of County Commissioners unanimously approved a four-
month pause on the acceptance and processing of County building permits for data centers. The
pause, which has the same legal effect as a moratorium, will cover the unincorporated areas of
Spokane County. Commissioners Jordan and Waldref ﬁrst proposed a data center moratorium on
July 21st, 2026.

“Today’s vote assures that no data center permits will be issued while a much needed community
conversation occurs over the next several months to shape rules that protect Spokane County utility
ratepayers, natural resources, and neighborhoods,” said Commissioner Jordan.

During the meeting, Commissioner Jordan credited the thousands of constituents who contacted
the County Commissioners in recent weeks with helping achieve a unanimous Commission vote
despite initial hesitancy by several Board members.

The moratorium is set to expire on December 15, 2026 and can be extended if more time is needed.
In the interim, the County’s Planning Commission will lead a formal Zoning Text Amendment process
that will include multiple public hearings and meetings to examine potential regulations on data
centers before the Board of County Commissioners makes a ﬁnal decision.

“I initially proposed a nine-month moratorium and am skeptical four months is enough time to
develop a thoughtful policy for Spokane County’s future,” said Commissioner Waldref. “However, this
pause is a good starting point. I encourage members of the public to stay engaged and share their
thoughts and ideas with the Planning Commission in the coming months.”
