CED Committee Members:                                                                 Support Staff:
Chair – Chance La Fleur                                                  Chris Pasinetti, CD Director
Jan Martinell                                                       Chris Searcy, City Administrator
Corrie Koopman Frazier




                                            AGENDA

   COMMUNITY & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (CED) COMMITTEE
                           CITY OF ENUMCLAW – STEVENSON-YERXA
                                   Monday, February 9, 2026

                                      *****4:30PM*****



  I. NEW BUSINESS
         A. Monday, December 8, 2025, CED Meeting Summary
         B. Ordinance No. 2833, BESS Moratorium Regulations
         C. Ordinance No. 2832, Co-living Interim Development Regulations
         D. Hearing examiner contract




 II. ADJOURNMENT




Next Scheduled Meeting: February 23, 2026 --- 4:30 p.m
CED Committee Members:                                                                    Support Staff:
Chair – Chance La Fleur                                                     Chris Pasinetti, CD Director
Corrie Koopman-Frazier                                                 Chris Searcy, City Administrator
Jan Martinell



                                       CED SUMMARY

    COMMUNITY & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (CED) COMMITTEE
                           CITY OF ENUMCLAW – STEVENSON-YERXA
                                   Monday, January 26, 2026

                                ******** 4:30 p.m. ********

THE MEETING BEGAN AT 4:35 PM AND ENDED AT 5:30 PM COUNCILMEMBERS,
LA FLUER, KOOPMAN FRAZIER AND MARTINELL AS WELL AS STAFF MEMBER
CHRIS PASINETTI.
  I. NEW BUSINESS

      A. Meeting summary from December 8, 2025, was approved.
      B. Ordinance No. 2832, Co-living interim development regulations. Pasinetti gave an overview
         of the co-living ordinance up for Public Hearing. Description of the regulations and
         requirements from the state as well as the requirements for the Planning Commission to
         review the requirements and bring back permanent regulations at a later date. Staff has not
         requested a recommendation from the CED at this time and will at the next meeting.
      C. Draft 2026 Planning Commission Work Plan. Staff gave an overview of the DRAFT work
         plan for the Planning Commission and planning department. Staff discussed the likelihood of
         completing this many work plan items given staff availability and current workload. Staff
         pointed out that the BESS regulations, co-living regulations and Title 15 amendments must
         be included and should be completed this year; and that it is likely that is the most that can be
         accomplished. However, the mayor and the City Administrator have supported hiring outside
         consultants to draft and review the Title 15 amendments. CED reviewed aspects of the draft
         work plan. Comments from the committee included concerns regarding re-reviewing the
         building heights in the R-4 zone and HCB as well as hiring consultants to complete tasks.
         Staff indicated that the Planning Commission would review the work plan at their February
         meeting. Once the commission completes their review they will make a recommendation to
         the City Council regarding the yearly work plan. This should come back to the City Council
         in March and staff will request a recommendation at that time.

 II. AJOUNRMENT

    5:30 pm




                                                                                                 Page 2
                                                                                                            ITEM# 2025.042



                                                        City Council
                                                       AGENDA BILL

Meeting Date: 02/09/2026
Subject: Public Hearing for Ordinance No. 2833 - Battery Energy Storage System facility Moratorium
extension

 Category: ORDINANCE                                                                 BUDGET IMPACT:
                                                                                     Expenditure Budget:                           $0
                                                                                     Revenue Budget:                               $0
                                                                                     Proposed Budget Amendment:                    $0

Related Ordinance No. 2833
Attachments: Staff Report, Ordinance
Staff Contact: Chris Pasinetti, Community Development Dirctor

 Summary/Background: Ordinance No. 2833 would extend the moratorium for BESS facilities for an additional year
 within the City of Enumclaw. BESS facilities, particularly those utilizing lithium-ion battery technology, pose significant fire and
 explosion risks, as evidenced by incidents in California, Arizona, and other states. Toxic emissions from thermal runaway events in
 BESS facilities threaten public health and air quality, necessitating further study on emergency response, zoning, and land use
 compatibility. Additionally, BESS facilities contain hazardous materials that present disposal and decommissioning challenges,
 requiring long-term environmental protections and regulatory oversight.

 The City of Enumclaw’s current zoning and development regulations do not adequately address the unique risks and land use
 compatibility issues associated with BESS facilities. The Washington State Growth Management Act (RCW 36.70A.390) and the
 Planning Enabling Act (RCW 35A.63.220) authorize the City to adopt a moratorium to preserve the status quo while appropriate
 regulations are developed. The City requires additional time to conduct a comprehensive analysis of fire codes, environmental
 impacts, emergency response protocols, and zoning restrictions before permitting any BESS facilities within its jurisdiction

 On February 24, 2025, the City Council adopted Ordinance 2806 on first reading, establishing a moratorium. A public hearing has been
 scheduled for April 14, 2025, to determine whether the moratorium should be extended. Based on the identified risks and the need for
 further study, it is recommended that the City Council adopt an ordinance extending the moratorium on the acceptance, processing, and
 approval of applications for BESS facilities. This moratorium will provide the necessary time to develop appropriate regulations to protect
 public health, safety, and welfare.

 Recommendations:
 Date Sent to Committee: 02/09/2026 Date Returned: 02/09/2026
 Council Committee:
 Staff: Approve

                                     (BELOW TO BE COMPLETED BY CITY CLERKS OFFICE)
 COUNCIL ACTION:
     APPROVED                                                                            1ST reading
     DENIED                                                                              Enactment reading
     TABLED / DEFERRED / NO ACTION                                                       ORDINANCE #
     MOVED TO SECOND READING (Ordinances only)                                           RESOLUTION #


                                                                                                                          Page 3
                                                                                 Staff Report
                        Department of Community Development
TO:            Mayor / City Council
FROM:          Chris Pasinetti, Community Development Director
DATE:          February 9, 2026
SUBJECT:       Public Hearing for Ordinance No. 2833, Moratorium for Battery Energy
               Storage System (BESS) facilities.

Background:
The City of Enumclaw has adopted a Comprehensive Plan to guide and inform future growth,
development, and infrastructure planning pursuant to the Growth Management Act (GMA), RCW
Chapter 36.70A. This plan covers the incorporated city limits and adjacent unincorporated lands
within the Urban Growth Area. Recently, the City Council has identified substantial public health,
safety, environmental, zoning, and emergency response concerns regarding the development of
Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) facilities.
Analysis:
BESS facilities, particularly those utilizing lithium-ion battery technology, pose significant fire
and explosion risks, as evidenced by incidents in California, Arizona, and other states. Toxic
emissions from thermal runaway events in BESS facilities threaten public health and air quality,
necessitating further study on emergency response, zoning, and land use compatibility.
Additionally, BESS facilities contain hazardous materials that present disposal and
decommissioning challenges, requiring long-term environmental protections and regulatory
oversight.
The City of Enumclaw’s current zoning and development regulations do not adequately address
the unique risks and land use compatibility issues associated with BESS facilities. The Washington
State Growth Management Act (RCW 36.70A.390) and the Planning Enabling Act (RCW
35A.63.220) authorize the City to adopt a moratorium to preserve the status quo while appropriate
regulations are developed. The City requires additional time to conduct a comprehensive analysis
of fire codes, environmental impacts, emergency response protocols, and zoning restrictions before
permitting any BESS facilities within its jurisdiction.

On February 24, 2025, the City Council adopted Ordinance 2806 on first reading, establishing a
moratorium. A public hearing has been scheduled for April 14, 2025, to determine whether the
moratorium should be extended, which was extended.

The Planning Commission reviewed a draft of the BESS regulations in December. At that meeting
the commission decided it was best to convene a subcommittee to develop an Ordinance regulating




                                                                                          Page 4
Battery Energy Storage Systems within the City. The Subcommittee met for the first time on
February 4th, 2026 (has not yet met as of the drafting of this staff report).
Recommendation:
Based on the identified risks and the need for further study, it is recommended that the City Council
adopt Ordinance 2833 to extend the moratorium on the acceptance, processing, and approval of
applications for BESS facilities. This will provide additional time to develop appropriate
regulations to protect public health, safety, and welfare.




                                                                                            Page 5
                                     ORDINANCE NO. 2833

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ENUMCLAW, KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON,
IMPOSING A MORATORIUM ON THE ACCEPTANCE, PROCESSING, AND APPROVAL
OF APPLICATIONS FOR BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM (BESS) FACILITIES;
PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY; AND ESTABLISHING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.

       Whereas the City of Enumclaw has adopted a Comprehensive Plan to guide and

inform future growth, development, and infrastructure planning pursuant to the Growth

Management Act (GMA), RCW Chapter 36.70A, covering the incorporated city limits and

adjacent unincorporated lands within the Urban Growth Area; and

       Whereas the City Council has identified substantial public health, safety,

environmental, zoning, and emergency response concerns regarding the development of

Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) facilities; and

       Whereas BESS facilities, particularly those utilizing lithium-ion battery technology,

pose significant fire and explosion risks, as evidenced by incidents in California, Arizona,

and other states; and

       Whereas toxic emissions from thermal runaway events in BESS facilities threaten

public health and air quality, requiring further study on emergency response, zoning, and

land use compatibility; and

       Whereas BESS facilities contain hazardous materials that present disposal and

decommissioning challenges, requiring long-term environmental protections and regulatory

oversight; and

       Whereas the City of Enumclaw’s current zoning and development regulations do not

adequately address the unique risks and land use compatibility issues associated with

BESS facilities; and




Ordinance No. 2833                                                                    Page 1
Draft No.: 1
Draft Date: 1/13/2026
Ordinance Requested By: Community Development

                                                                                    Page 6
       Whereas the Washington State Growth Management Act (RCW 36.70A.390) and

the Planning Enabling Act (RCW 35A.63.220) authorize the City to adopt a moratorium to

preserve the status quo while appropriate regulations are developed; and

       Whereas the City requires additional time to conduct a comprehensive analysis of

fire codes, environmental impacts, emergency response protocols, and zoning restrictions

before permitting any BESS facilities within its jurisdiction; and

       Whereas, On February 24, 2025, the City Council adopted Ordinance 2806 on first

reading, establishing a moratorium and set public hearing for April 14, 2025, to determine

whether the moratorium should be extended; and

       Whereas, the 2025 Enumclaw Planning Commission work plan included municipal

code amendments for Battery Energy Storage Systems; and

       Whereas, the Enumclaw Planning Commission’s first review of the DRAFT

regulations for Battery Energy Storage Systems occurred on November 20th, 2025. The

Planning Commission has not made a recommendation to the City Council; and

       Whereas, absent a recommendation from the Planning Commission to the City

Council, on December 18th, 2025, the Planning Commission made a motion to establish a

subcommittee to review regulations for Battery Energy Storage Systems; and

       Whereas, Battery Energy Storage System review has been included as part of the

DRAFT Planning Commission and Planning Department work plan for 2026; and

       Whereas, after completion of the Public Hearing on April 14, 2025, the City Council

carefully considered this moratorium and finds it to be in the best interest of the public to

temporarily prohibit the acceptance, processing, and approval of applications for BESS

facilities to protect public health, safety, and welfare.


Ordinance No. 2833                                                                     Page 2
Draft No.: 1
Draft Date: 1/13/2026
Ordinance Requested By: Community Development

                                                                                     Page 7
       NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ENUMCLAW, KING

COUNTY, WASHINGTON, DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

       SECTION 1: FINDINGS.            The findings set forth above are adopted as the official

legislative findings of the City Council in support of this ordinance.

       SECTION 2: MORATORIUM IMPOSED. A                   temporary      moratorium   is   hereby

imposed on the acceptance, processing, and approval of applications related to the

establishment, expansion, or operation of Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) facilities

within the City of Enumclaw.

This moratorium shall be extended for twelve (12) additional months from the expiration

date of Ordinance 2806 (expiration February 24, 2026), unless extended, modified, or

terminated by the City Council.

       SECTION 3: SCOPE OF MORATORIUM.                      The moratorium applies to all

BESS-related applications, including but not limited to:

   1. Land use applications (conditional use permits, variances, site plan approvals);

   2. Building permits;

   3. Electrical permits;

   4. Environmental impact assessments;

   5. Business licenses related to BESS operation.

       SECTION 4: EXEMPTIONS.                   The following activities are exempt from this

moratorium:

   1. Routine maintenance and repair of existing, legally permitted BESS facilities,

       provided such activities do not expand the facility’s footprint or storage capacity.

   2. Emergency repairs deemed necessary by the City or other regulatory agencies to

       protect public health and safety.
Ordinance No. 2833                                                                          Page 3
Draft No.: 1
Draft Date: 1/13/2026
Ordinance Requested By: Community Development

                                                                                           Page 8
All exemptions shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development

Department prior to any work being performed.

       SECTION 5: STUDY                AND    REGULATORY         DEVELOPMENT.                During     the

moratorium period, the City shall conduct a comprehensive study to evaluate and develop

new regulations governing BESS facilities, including but not limited to:

   1. Reviewing fire safety codes, hazardous materials handling regulations, and

       emergency response protocols applicable to BESS facilities;

   2. Assessing appropriate zoning restrictions to ensure BESS facilities are not located

       near residential, environmentally sensitive, or high-risk areas;

   3. Consulting with emergency responders regarding fire suppression requirements and

       hazardous material containment measures;

   4. Engaging       with     stakeholders,     including   residents,       industry   representatives,

       environmental        experts,    and   public   safety   officials,     to   gather    input    and

       recommendations;

   5. Drafting amendments to the Enumclaw Municipal Code to establish appropriate and

       enforceable regulations for BESS facilities.

       SECTION 6: SEVERABILITY.                 If any section, sentence, clause, or phrase of this

ordinance is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such

decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this ordinance.

       SECTION 7: EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force

five (5) days from and after its passage, approval and publication as required by law.

       PASSED IN REGULAR AND OPEN SESSION this ___ day of _________, 2026.




Ordinance No. 2833                                                                                    Page 4
Draft No.: 1
Draft Date: 1/13/2026
Ordinance Requested By: Community Development

                                                                                                 Page 9
                                                ________________________
                                                Mayor Anthony Wright
                                                INTRODUCED __________
                                                PASSED      __________
                                                APPROVED    __________
                                                PUBLISHED   __________

Attested:                                       Approved as to Form:



_______________________                         _________________________
Jessica Rose                                    Michael J. Reynolds
City Clerk                                      City Attorney




Ordinance No. 2833                                                            Page 5
Draft No.: 1
Draft Date: 1/13/2026
Ordinance Requested By: Community Development

                                                                            Page 10
                                                                                          ITEM#



                                                City Council
                                               AGENDA BILL

Meeting Date: 02/09/2026
Subject: Ordinance No. 2832 Co-living Housing Interim Zoning and Development Regulations

Category: ORDINANCE                                                   BUDGET IMPACT:
                                                                      Expenditure Budget:                    0
                                                                      Revenue Budget:                        0
                                                                      Proposed Budget Amendment:             0

Related Ordinance or Resolution No. 2832
Attachments: Staff Report, Ordinance No. 2832
Staff Contact: Chris Pasinetti, Community Development Director

Summary/Background: On December 8, 2025, City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2830 waiving first and
second reading to adopt an ordinance establishing co-living housing interim development regulations effective
immediately. As required by RCW 36.70A.390, the City Council shall conduct a duly noticed public hearing within
sixty (60) days of adoption to consider public comment and determine whether the interim regulations should be
continued, modified, or replaced with permanent regulations.

The co-living housing interim development regulations allow co-living housing in accordance with RCW
36.70A.535 (HB 1998) which requires cities planning under the Growth Management Act to adopt development
regulations allowing co-living as a permitted use on any lot located within an urban growth area that allows at least
six multifamily residential units, including on a lot zoned for mixed-use development. HB 1998 requires
jurisdictions to adopt co-living regulations no later than December 31, 2025.

The regulations amended the land use matrix in EMC 18.05.020, definitions in EMC 15.04, and adopted a new
section EMC 19.32.180. The new section establishes standards for unit size, parking, density, fees, and other
development regulations.

Options:
   1. Continue the interim development regulations; or
   2. Modify the interim development regulations.

Recommendation: Continuing the interim development regulations which shall remain in effect for twelve (12)
months of the effective date of Ordinance No. 2830 (effective December 8, 2025) or until staff brings another
ordinance to replace the interim development regulations with permanent regulations by giving second reading of
Ordinance No. 2832.


Recommendations:
Date Sent to Committee: 01/26/2026 Date Returned: 02/09/2026
Council Committee:
Staff: Adopt Ordinance No. 2832 continuing interim development regulations.

                               (BELOW TO BE COMPLETED BY CITY CLERKS OFFICE)
COUNCIL ACTION:
                                                                                                     Page 11
☐ APPROVED                                    1ST reading
☐ DENIED                                      Enactment reading
☐ TABLED / DEFFERED / NO ACTION               ORDINANCE #
☐ MOVED TO SECOND READING (Ordinances Only)   RESOLUTION #




                                                                  Page 12
                                                                                      Staff Report
                          Department of Community Development
TO:             Mayor / City Council
FROM:           Chris Pasinetti, Community Development Director
DATE:           February 9, 2026
SUBJECT:        Co-living Housing Interim Development Regulations Public Hearing –
                Ordinance No. 2832

Background: On December 8, 2025, City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2830 waiving first and
second reading to adopt an ordinance establishing co-living housing interim development regulations
immediately. As required by RCW 36.70A.390, the City Council shall conduct a duly noticed public
hearing within sixty (60) days of adoption to consider public comment and determine whether the
interim regulations should be continued, modified, or replaced with permanent regulations.

The co-living housing interim development regulations allow co-living housing in accordance with
RCW 36.70A.535 (HB 1998) which requires cities planning under the Growth Management Act to
adopt development regulations allowing co-living as a permitted use on any lot located within an urban
growth area that allows at least six multifamily residential units, including on a lots zoned for mixed-
use development. HB 1998 requires jurisdictions to adopt co-living regulations no later than December
31, 2025.

The regulations amended the land use matrix in EMC 18.05.020, definitions in EMC 15.04, and
adopted a new section EMC 19.32.180. The new section establishes standards for unit size, parking,
density, fees, and other development regulations.

The City Council held a public hearing for the interim regulations on January 26, 2026. After all of the
comments were received the public hearing was closed.

Comments: Two comments were received during the public hearing. The first comment was regarding
the definition of a kitchenette to be included within the regulations. The second comment was specific
to requiring the use be a conditional use within the General Office Zoning District.

Analysis: The City of Enumclaw encourages an adopted 2024 Comprehensive Plan Housing
Element Goal H-3 to “Allow various densities and diverse housing types so the City can
accommodate its projected housing targets and provide for households in all economic segment
and for its senior [residents].”

As stated in the findings in RCW 36.70A.535, co-living housing is a type of housing that can
provide options for people who wish to lower their housing expenses by paying less for a smaller
home, those who prefer a living arrangement with shared community spaces that facilitate social



                                                                                              Page 13
connections, those who wish to trade off location for space and, by living in a small home, also
get to live in a high opportunity neighborhood they could not otherwise afford, or those who want
a low-cost, more private alternative to having a roommate in a traditional rental. Additionally, co-
living housing provides a good option for seniors, especially those who want to downsize, or those
who desire a living arrangement that is more social than a standard apartment.

As proposed in the definitions, “Co-living housing” means a residential development with sleeping
units that are independently rented and lockable and provide living and sleeping space, and
residents share kitchen facilities with other sleeping units in the building. Local governments may
use other names to refer to co-living housing including congregate living facilities, single room
occupancy, rooming house, boarding house, lodging house and residential suites.

Public comment had mentioned including a definition and requirement that all sleeping units
include a kitchenette and further defined it. This addition would add to the existing regulations and
could be included now or could be included as part of the Planning Commission review of the final
regulations to be adopted by the council at a later date. Additional public comment requested to
change the co-living use from permitted within the General Office to conditional. The state law
does require co-living as a permitted use on any lot located within an urban growth area that allows at
least six multifamily residential units, including on a lots zoned for mixed-use development, the
General Office zone is nearly entirely within the Mixed-Use Overlay. There are 3 properties within the
city that are in the GO zone and not within the Mixed-Use Overlay, as well as multifamily uses with a
nightwatchman’s quarters as an accessory to the permitted use; therefore co-living by law must be
included in the zone as well as the areas where mixed-use is permitted.

Recommendation: Staff recommends the city council:
   1. Give second reading of Ordinance No. 2832; or
   2. Amend Ordinance No. 2832 and give second reading.




                                                                                             Page 14
                                        ORDINANCE NO. 2832

AN ORDINANCE of the City of Enumclaw, King County, Washington, adopting
interim zoning and development regulations to implement the State’s co-living
housing requirements under Engrossed Substitute House Bill 1998 (2024),
amending the City’s land use matrix and related provisions to allow co-living
housing on lots where multifamily development of six units or more is permitted;
declaring an emergency; establishing an immediate effective date of December 8,
2025; providing for a public hearing consistent with RCW 36.70A.390; and
providing for severability.

WHEREAS, the City of Enumclaw (“City”) is authorized to adopt interim zoning controls
and interim development regulations under RCW 36.70A.390, RCW 36.70.790, and
RCW 35A.63.220, which permit immediate adoption of temporary land-use regulations
when necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, provided a public
hearing is held within sixty (60) days; and

WHEREAS, in 2024, the Washington State Legislature adopted Engrossed Substitute
House Bill 1998 (“ESHB 1998”), codified in part at RCW 36.70A.540, requiring cities
planning under the Growth Management Act (“GMA”) to allow co-living housing on any
lot where at least six multifamily dwelling units are permitted; and

WHEREAS, ESHB 1998 defines “co-living housing” as a residential development
containing independently rented, lockable sleeping units that provide living and sleeping
space, where residents share kitchen facilities with other units in the building; and

WHEREAS, the Legislature found that Washington is experiencing a severe housing
affordability crisis, including a shortage of affordable workforce housing, and that co-
living housing historically provided a significant portion of the low-cost private-market
rental inventory; and

WHEREAS, the Legislature further found that co-living housing provides a wide range
of benefits, including:
• Lower housing costs for residents seeking smaller units;
• Living arrangements that support community connections;
• Increased opportunities for residents to live in high-opportunity neighborhoods they
could not otherwise afford;
• An alternative to traditional roommate rental arrangements;
• Reduced demand for family-sized homes that are currently rented by singles or small
households; and

WHEREAS, the Legislature also recognized that co-living housing benefits seniors—
particularly those wishing to downsize or who no longer drive—by providing smaller,
more affordable units in walkable neighborhoods close to services; and

Ordinance No. 2832                                                                     Page 1
Draft No.: 1
Draft Date: 1/26/25
Ordinance Requested By: Community Development

                                                                                   Page 15
WHEREAS, co-living housing is well suited to residents of diverse incomes, including
low-income and very-low-income households, and Washington’s building codes already
include minimum unit sizes and standards ensuring that co-living meets modern health
and safety requirements; and

WHEREAS, the Legislature found that locating co-living developments near transit,
employment, and services can reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, shorten commute
distances, limit sprawl, and reduce development pressure on natural and working lands;
and

WHEREAS, ESHB 1998 requires jurisdictions to adopt implementing co-living
regulations no later than December 31, 2025, and the City will be unable to complete
permanent code updates and Planning Commission review before that deadline; and

WHEREAS, the City’s zoning code does not currently include a specific co-living
housing category, creating uncertainty for staff, applicants, and the public as to how
such uses should be reviewed and processed under existing land-use regulations; and

WHEREAS, adoption of interim development regulations will ensure the City complies
with state law, provide clarity for permit applicants, preserve the status quo, and prevent
development decisions that could conflict with the City’s long-term planning objectives;
and

WHEREAS, interim development regulations will provide the City with adequate time to
complete a full legislative review, including environmental analysis, public participation,
Planning Commission recommendations, and preparation of permanent zoning
amendments; and

WHEREAS, Washington courts have long upheld the authority of cities to adopt interim
zoning controls when necessary to address emerging land-use issues, including Matson
v. Clark County Bd. of Comm’rs, 79 Wn. App. 641 (1995), Norco Constr. v. King County,
97 Wn.2d 680 (1982), and Byers v. Clallam County, 84 Wn.2d 796 (1975); and

WHEREAS, additional case law confirms that interim zoning is valid when supported by
adequate legislative findings and when consistent with comprehensive planning
principles, including Faben Point v. City of Mercer Island, 102 Wn. App. 775 (2000), and
Caswell v. Pierce County, 99 Wn. App. 194 (2000); and

WHEREAS, the GMA requires that interim zoning adopted under RCW 36.70A.390 not
substantially interfere with the goals of the GMA, and the City Council finds that
adopting co-living interim regulations will advance those goals by supporting housing
availability, efficient urban growth, and reduced displacement; and



Ordinance No. 2832                                                                     Page 2
Draft No.: 1
Draft Date: 1/26/25
Ordinance Requested By: Community Development

                                                                                   Page 16
WHEREAS, WAC 197-11-880 exempts emergency interim zoning ordinances from
SEPA threshold determinations, recognizing that permanent regulations will undergo full
SEPA review once drafted; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that without immediate adoption of interim
regulations governing co-living housing, the City could receive land use or building
applications proposing co-living developments under a zoning framework that does not
address this newly created housing type, resulting in inconsistent interpretation of state
law, confusion for the public, and potential vesting under outdated standards; and

WHEREAS, allowing such applications to vest under existing code before permanent
regulations are adopted would undermine the City’s ability to fully implement the
requirements of ESHB 1998, could result in development patterns inconsistent with the
Comprehensive Plan, and would prevent the City from applying standards that ensure
compatible density, infrastructure capacity, neighborhood impacts, and life-safety
protections; and

WHEREAS, the circumstances requiring this action were not created by the City but
result from the Legislature’s imposition of a mandatory December 31, 2025 deadline for
co-living zoning compliance, which cannot be met through the City’s normal legislative
process involving Planning Commission review, public participation, SEPA analysis, and
Comprehensive Plan consistency review; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that an emergency exists because, without
immediate adoption of interim regulations effective December 8, 2025, the City risks
falling out of compliance with mandatory state housing law, resulting in legal uncertainty
and potential impairment of the public welfare; and

WHEREAS, adoption of these interim regulations is therefore necessary to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare by ensuring orderly permit review, preventing
inconsistent zoning interpretations, and providing adequate time to develop permanent
regulations; and

WHEREAS, the City Council will conduct a duly noticed public hearing within sixty (60)
days of adoption, as required by RCW 36.70A.390, to consider public comment and
determine whether the interim regulations should be continued, modified, or replaced
with permanent regulations;


        NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ENUMCLAW,

KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:



Ordinance No. 2832                                                                    Page 3
Draft No.: 1
Draft Date: 1/26/25
Ordinance Requested By: Community Development

                                                                                  Page 17
        SECTION 1: FINDINGS.               The City Council adopts the above "WHEREAS"

recitals as findings of fact in support of its action as required by RCW 36.70A.390 and

RCW 35.63.200.

        SECTION 2: INTERIM ZONING REGULATIONS IMPOSED.                      Temporary

Interim Zoning Regulations are hereby imposed related to Co-living as set forth in

Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

        Section 3. Duration: These regulations shall be in effect for twelve (12) months

from the effective date of Ordinance 2830 (effective December 8, 2025), unless

extended, modified, or terminated by the City Council.

        SECTION 4: STUDY AND REGULATORY DEVELOPMENT. During the interim

period, City staff shall prepare a work plan that includes:

        1.       Evaluation of co-living housing impacts on traffic, parking, utilities,

emergency services, and neighborhood compatibility;

        2.       Review of building, fire, and life-safety code requirements for co-living

structures;

        3.       Drafting of permanent amendments to the Enumclaw Municipal Code

addressing co-living housing;

        4.       SEPA review of permanent regulations; and

        5.       Public engagement and Planning Commission review consistent with the

City’s legislative procedures.

        The work plan shall be provided to the City Council for acknowledgment within

sixty (60) days of adoption.


Ordinance No. 2832                                                                   Page 4
Draft No.: 1
Draft Date: 1/26/25
Ordinance Requested By: Community Development

                                                                                 Page 18
        SECTION 5. DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY. The City Council finds and

declares that an emergency exists due to the statutory requirement to adopt permanent

co-living regulations by December 31, 2025, and the inability to complete required

legislative procedures before that date. This ordinance is necessary for the immediate

preservation of the public health, safety, and welfare and shall take effect immediately

as an emergency interim zoning measure pursuant to RCW 35A.12.130 and RCW

36.70A.390. The City Council further finds that this emergency is not the result of City

delay but arises from the Legislature’s imposed deadline and the need to prevent

vesting under outdated regulations.

        SECTION 6. SEVERABILITY.                If any section, sentence, clause, or phrase of

this ordinance is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent

jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this

ordinance.

        SECTION 7: EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance, being an exercise of a power

specifically delegated to the City legislative body, is not subject to referendum and shall

take effect immediately upon its adoption.



        PASSED IN REGULAR AND OPEN SESSION this                    ___ day of _________

        , 2026.




                                                      ________________________
                                                      Mayor Jan Molinaro
                                                      INTRODUCED __________
                                                      PASSED      __________
Ordinance No. 2832                                                                       Page 5
Draft No.: 1
Draft Date: 1/26/25
Ordinance Requested By: Community Development

                                                                                     Page 19
                                                APPROVED __________
                                                PUBLISHED __________


Attested:                                       Approved as to Form:



_______________________                         _________________________
Jessica Rose                                    Mike Reynolds
City Clerk                                      City Attorney




Ordinance No. 2832                                                             Page 6
Draft No.: 1
Draft Date: 1/26/25
Ordinance Requested By: Community Development

                                                                            Page 20
Exhibit A

                                                              Chapter 18.05
                                                            LAND USE MATRIX
Sections:
   18.05.010         Interpretation of land use matrix.
   18.05.020         Residential land use matrix.
   18.05.030         Accommodation, food services, finance, insurance, medical and professional offices land use matrix.
   18.05.040         Educational and government land use matrix.
   18.05.050         Cultural, religious, recreational, and entertainment land use matrix.
   18.05.060         Retail sales, service uses and similar uses land use matrix.
   18.05.070         Agriculture, mining and forestry land use matrix.
   18.05.080         Manufacturing and construction land use matrix.
   18.05.090         Wholesale, transportation, communication, and utilities land use matrix.

18.05.020 Residential land use matrix.
A. Residential Land Use Matrix.

          KEY                           RESIDENTIAL ZONES                                         COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL ZONES
  P – Permitted Use       Low     Mod                        Residential         General                Highway Central Central
                                           Mixed Multifamily             General          Neighborhood                               Light Public
 C – Conditional Use     Density Density                       Mobile             Office-              Community Business Business                Hospital
                                         Residential Res                  Office            Business                               Industrial Use
    S – Special Use        SF      SF                        Home Park           Hospital               Business    1        2
 SPECIFIC LAND USE         R-1    R-2      R-3        R-4       RMHP      GO     GO-H        NB          HCB       CB-1     CB-2      LI      P      H
Co-living housing,
subject to EMC                                         P                   P                               P         P       P
19.32.180

Cottage housing,
subject to                 P       P        P          P          P
Chapter 19.40 EMC




                                                                                                                                                  Page 21
          KEY                              RESIDENTIAL ZONES                                             COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL ZONES
  P – Permitted Use         Low     Mod                        Residential         General                Highway Central Central
                                             Mixed Multifamily             General          Neighborhood                               Light Public
 C – Conditional Use       Density Density                       Mobile             Office-              Community Business Business                Hospital
                                           Residential Res                  Office            Business                               Industrial Use
    S – Special Use          SF      SF                        Home Park           Hospital               Business    1        2
 SPECIFIC LAND USE           R-1    R-2       R-3       R-4       RMHP       GO      GO-H         NB            HCB       CB-1     CB-2    LI   P      H
Dwelling unit,
accessory subject to         P       P         P         P                                                                                 P2
Chapter 19.34 EMC

Dwelling unit,
duplex (two units per
                            P3/C    P3/C       P3        P                                                                  C        C
structure), subject to
Chapter 19.40 EMC

Dwelling unit, single-
family detached (one         P       P         P         P                    C        C                                    C        C
unit per structure)

Dwelling unit cottage,
single-family detached
(one unit per                        P1        P1        P1
structure), subject to
Chapter 19.46 EMC

Dwelling unit, live-work                                 P4                                       P5/C          P6/C      P6/C      P6/C

Multifamily
development (3+ units                                                                                                      P5,6     P5,6
                                                         P                    P2                                P5/C
per structure), subject                                                                                                    /C       /C
to Chapter 19.40 EMC

Group quarters,
dormitories, fraternal
houses, boardinghouse,
not including secure                                     C                             P                        P5/C
community transition
facilities or halfway
house

GENERAL CROSS REFERENCES:                                       Land use table instructions, see EMC 18.05.010;
                                                                Development standards, see EMC Titles 18 and 19;
                                                                Application and review procedures, see Chapters 15.16 through 15.36 EMC;
                                                                General provisions, see Chapter 15.06 EMC;
                                                                Italicized uses are defined in Chapter 15.04 EMC.




                                                                                                                                                    Page 22
B. Residential Land Use Footnotes.

     1. Subject to Chapter 19.46 EMC.

     2. A nightwatchman’s quarters are allowed as an accessory use to a use permitted in the zone.

     3. New construction of a one-story duplex with a maximum building size of 2,500 gross square feet including garage, or
     conversion of an existing single-family dwelling to a duplex are permitted, otherwise conditional use.

     4. Allowed as part of a live-work project. The work space must clearly constitute an accessory use of the building and property,
     and the use shall not result in a conversion of the property or building from primarily multifamily to primarily nonresidential
     use.

     5. Dwellings or living quarters must be located above primary use. Parking is provided in private parking areas or garages on
     the basis of one parking space for each dwelling unit within 400 feet.

     6. Multifamily residential and live-work uses shall be permitted only in the mixed use overlay when included within a mixed use
     development.

     7. The number of transitional housing units allowed on any given property shall be no more than the number of standard
     dwelling units that would be allowed under the zoning of the property; provided, that in no case shall the number of
     transitional housing units allowed on any given property exceed 10. No transitional housing unit may be located within a
     quarter mile of another transitional housing property, as measured by the nearest point on one such property to the nearest
     point on the other, that contains permanent supportive housing or transitional housing. Each unit of transitional housing shall
     be limited to occupancy by one family as that term is defined in the EMC. Transitional housing shall not be located within a
     quarter mile of emergency housing and emergency shelters as measured by the nearest point on one such property to the
     nearest point on another.

     8. The number of permanent supportive housing units allowed on any given property shall be no more than the number of
     standard dwelling units that would be allowed under the zoning of the property; provided, that in no case shall the number of
     permanent supportive housing units allowed on any given property exceed 10. No permanent supportive housing unit may be
     located within a quarter mile of another property that contains permanent supportive housing or transitional housing, as




                                                                                                                            Page 23
measured by the nearest point on one such property to the nearest point on another. Each unit of permanent supportive
housing shall be limited to occupancy by one family as that term is defined in the EMC. Permanent supportive housing shall
not be located within a quarter mile of emergency housing and emergency shelters as measured by the nearest point on one
such property to the nearest point on another.

9. The occupancy of an indoor emergency shelter shall be limited to no more than 10 families or 40 people, whichever is fewer.
“Continuously operating” is intended to exclude indoor emergency shelter facilities that are needed to respond temporarily to
a natural disaster or other similarly acute emergency (e.g., unusually hot or cold temperatures of short duration) that has
caused unexpected homelessness within the city. No continuously operating indoor emergency shelter may be located within
a quarter mile of a continuously operating indoor emergency housing facility as measured by the nearest point on one such
property to the nearest point on the other. Indoor emergency shelters shall not be located within a quarter mile of permanent
supportive housing or transitional housing units as measured by the nearest point on one such property to the nearest point
on another.

10. The occupancy of an indoor emergency housing facility shall be limited to no more than 10 families or 40 people,
whichever is fewer. “Continuously operating” is intended to exclude indoor emergency housing facilities that are needed to
respond temporarily to a natural disaster or other similarly acute emergency (e.g., unusually hot or cold temperatures of short
duration) that has caused unexpected homelessness within the city. No continuously operating indoor emergency housing
facility may be located within a quarter mile of a continuously operating indoor emergency shelter as measured by the nearest
point on one such property to the nearest point on the other. Indoor emergency housing facilities shall not be located within a
quarter mile of permanent supportive housing or transitional housing units, as measured by the nearest point on one such
property to the nearest point on another.

19.32.180 Co-living housing.

Co-living housing shall comply with the following:

   A. Review process. A co-living housing shall be reviewed the same as the required review process for the permitted
      multifamily use for the underlying zone.
   B. Development standards. As required by RCW 36.70A.535(4), development standards for co-living housing shall not be
      any more restrictive than the development standards applied to other multifamily uses in the same underlying zone.
      1. A sleeping unit in a co-living housing shall not exceed a maximum size of 600 square feet.




                                                                                                                      Page 24
       2. Shared kitchens shall be provided in the development to be classified as co-living housing. At least one shared
          kitchen shall be provided for every thirty sleeping units.
       3. Open space shall be provided at a minimum of 10 square feet for each 100 square feet of sleeping unit. Open
          space may be provided through shared indoor common areas, outdoor open space, or private open spaces, or a
          combination thereof.
            a. Required open space may include common areas which are shared indoor spaces and amenity areas separate
                from required shared kitchen. Other shared indoor spaces may include but not limited to multi-purpose
                entertainment space, fitness center, movie theater, library, and similar amenities that promote share use and
                a sense of community.
            b. Required open space may be provided in outdoor open space or as private open spaces such as patios,
                rooftop gardens, and balconies.
            c. See EMC 19.40.050(D) for Open Space Types and Standards.
       4. A minimum of one off-street parking space per four sleeping units shall be required. No off-street parking is
          required within one-half mile walking distance of a major transit stop.
       5. In zones with established maximum and/or minimum density requirements, each co-living housing sleeping unit
          shall be counted as one-quarter of a dwelling unit for the purpose of calculating density.
       6. Each sleeping unit in a co-living housing shall be calculated at one-half of a dwelling unit for the purposes of
          calculating fees for sewer connections.
   C. All other development standards, including, but not limited to, setbacks, lot coverage, maximum height, landscape
      buffer, mixed-use requirements, and design standards, shall be those established for multifamily uses in the underlying
      zone.
           a. In addition to exceptions listed under EMC 19.40.030, co-living housing conversion of an existing building shall
              be exempt from design standards.
   D. Co-living housing developments are exempt from any affordable housing requirements, however, voluntary affordable
      housing provisions outlined in EMC Chapter 19.38 Article IV Affordable Housing Incentive remain available to co-living
      housing developments, at sole discretion of the property owner. In addition, affordable housing incentives outlined
      under RCW 36.70A.540 are available to co-living housing developments that include on-site affordable housing.

15.04.020 Definitions.

“Boardinghouse” means a dwelling in which not more than four roomers, lodgers and/or boarders are housed and fed.




                                                                                                                    Page 25
“Co-living housing” means a residential development with sleeping units that are independently rented and lockable and
provide living and sleeping space, and residents share kitchen facilities with other sleeping units in the building. Local
governments may use other names to refer to co-living housing including congregate living facilities, single room occupancy,
rooming house, boarding house, lodging house and residential suites.

“Major transit stop” means: (1) a stop on a high capacity transportation system funded or expanded under the provisions of
Chapter 81.104 RCW; (2) commuter rail stops; (3) stops on rail or fixed guideway systems, including transitways; (4) stops on
bus rapid transit routes or routes that run on high occupancy vehicle lanes; or (5) stops for a bus or other transit mode
providing actual fixed route service at intervals of at least 15 minutes for at least five hours during the peak hours of operation
on weekdays.

“Rooming house” means a boardinghouse.




                                                                                                                          Page 26
                                                                                                      ITEM#



                                                      City Council
                                                     AGENDA BILL

Meeting Date: 02/09/2026
Subject: Hearing Examiner Contract

Category: CONSENT                                                             BUDGET IMPACT:
                                                                              Expenditure Budget:                        $
                                                                              Revenue Budget:                            $
                                                                              Proposed Budget Amendment:                 $

Related Ordinance or Resolution No.
Attachments:
Staff Contact: Chris Pasinetti, Community Development Dirctor

Summary/Background: On January 6, 2026, the City received notice from Sharon Rice, Hearing Examiner that she needed
to cancel her contract with the city for Hearing Examiner services.

The City of Enumclaw uses the Hearing examiner system authorized under RCW 35A.63.170 to conduct land use hearings and make
decisions and recommendations. The Hearing examiner is a fair and impartial third party that takes the place of the Planning
Commission to hear and make site specific land use recommendations/decisions. The Hearing examiner is tasked with ensuring that
the hearing is fair and that all decisions or recommendations are based on the facts, sworn testimony and state and local laws. The
impartiality of a having third party hearing examiner results in greatly reduced liability in land use and permitting.




Recommendations:
Date Sent to Committee: 02/09/2026 Date Returned: 02/09/2026
Council Committee:
Staff: Authorize the Mayor to enter into a contract for hearing examiner services.

                                    (BELOW TO BE COMPLETED BY CITY CLERKS OFFICE)
COUNCIL ACTION:
   APPROVED                                                                       1ST reading

   DENIED                                                                         Enactment reading

   TABLED / DEFERRED / NO ACTION                                                  ORDINANCE #

   MOVED TO SECOND READING (Ordinances only)                                      RESOLUTION #




                                                                                                                Page 27
                                                                                  Staff Report
                        Department of Community Development
TO:            Mayor / City Council
FROM:          Chris Pasinetti, Community Development Dirctor
DATE:          February 9, 2026
SUBJECT:       Hearing Examiner Contract

Background: The City of Enumclaw uses the Hearing examiner system authorized under RCW
35A.63.170 to conduct land use hearings and make decisions and recommendations. The
Hearing examiner is a fair and impartial third party that takes the place of the Planning
Commission to hear and make site specific land use recommendations/decisions. The Hearing
examiner is tasked with ensuring that the hearing is fair and that all decisions or
recommendations are based on the facts, sworn testimony and state and local laws. The
impartiality of a having third party hearing examiner results in greatly reduced liability in land
use and permitting.

On January 6, 2026, the City received notice from Sharon Rice, Hearing Examiner that she
needed to cancel her contract with the city for Hearing Examiner services.

Analysis: Mr. McGinn graduated from Gonzaga in 1994 and worked as a Real Estate and Land
Use attorney till January of 2013. From 2013 to December of 2023 Mr. McGinn worked as the
Hearing Examiner for the City of Spokane.

Hearing examiner contracts are 12 month rolling contracts with automatic renewals.

Recommendation: Council authorizes the Mayor to enter into a contract for hearing examiner
services.

Attachments:
   1. Hearing Examiner Contract
   2. Mr. McGinn Resume




                                                                                         Page 28
                                                                    Attachment 1




                          PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
                          CONTRACT AGREEMENT

                         HEARING EXAMINER SERVICES



Parties

This AGREEMENT is made and entered into this ______ day of February, 2026 by and
between the City of Enumclaw, a Washington municipal corporation, hereinafter called
“City”, and Witherspoon Brajcich McPhee, PLLC, of 601 W Main, Suite 1400, Spokane,
WA 99201, a limited liability company, hereinafter called “Consultant.”

WHEREAS, the City is desirous of engaging the professional services and assistance of a
qualified professional consulting firm to provide hearing examiner services; and

WHEREAS, it is most cost effective and efficient for the City to contract for the
provision of hearing examiner services; and

WHEREAS, the Consultant has indicated that it desires to and has the ability to provide
hearing examiner services upon the terms and conditions set forth herein.

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the terms, conditions, covenants and
performances contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:

1. Purpose

The purpose of this agreement is to create a contractual arrangement between the City
and the Consultant relating to professional consulting services and to define the terms and
conditions governing both parties’ obligations created by this agreement. The contractual
arrangement will provide for the City hearing examiner services.

2. Terms of Agreement

This agreement shall be in full force and effect and binding upon the parties hereto upon
execution of the agreement by both parties. The terms of the agreement shall be for a
period of 12 months. The contract shall automatically renew each 12 month period
unless the City takes action to terminate the contract pursuant to EMC 2.26.040. The
Consultant may terminate this agreement for any reason provided the City is given 60
days written notice.


                                                                                     Page 29
            Professional Service Contract Agreement – Hearing Examiner Services


3. Amendment

This agreement may be amended at any time after the initial 12 month term, subject to
the mutual agreement of both parties. Amendments shall be by written instrument.

4. Duties of each Party

A. Consultant Duties

The Consultant agrees to perform the duties set forth in EMC 15.13.090 which are
generally described as follows:

     1. To hear, and act as authorized by the Enumclaw Municipal Code, hearings
        related to land use permitting and code enforcement actions as deemed
        necessary by the City. As the Hearing Examiner, the Consultant shall receive
        and examine all admissible evidence regarding cases to be heard; conduct public
        hearings; and submit written Findings, Conclusions, Recommendations and
        Decisions within the time limits and as specified by the Enumclaw Municipal
        Code;

     2. To conduct other public hearings not related to land use permitting or code
        enforcement actions, by mutual agreement and as provided for in the Enumclaw
        Municipal Code;

     3. To meet with the Enumclaw City Council, as requested by the Council, to
        discuss matters pertinent to the conduct and practices of the Hearing Examiner;

     4. To meet with Enumclaw staff, or review material provided, and discuss or
        comment on matters pertinent to the Enumclaw land use process, requirements
        or enforcement, as requested by the Director of Community Development.

     5. The Consultant shall use its own office and office equipment to perform duties
        other than conducting hearings and meeting with City Council and staff.
        Hearings will be held using remote meeting technology.

The hearing examiner services will be provided solely by Consultant’s representative,
Brian McGinn. Consultant may provide hearing examiner services utilizing alternative
personnel on the same terms contained in this Agreement only if Consultant first obtains
written agreement from the City.


B. City

The City of Enumclaw shall provide the following:

   1. Written staff reports to the Hearing Examiner (both electronic and hard copies), as
      well as maps and such other exhibits as required; shall be responsible for the
      scheduling of all the hearings for the Hearing Examiner; shall provide notice of


                                                                                    Page
                                                                                Page 2 of 7 30
             Professional Service Contract Agreement – Hearing Examiner Services


       hearings and decisions as required by Code; shall make all the required copies of
       said decisions and correspondence, and mail to all parties of record; shall keep
       and maintain all official files and records of the hearings; and do all other tasks
       necessary to administer process said materials.

   2. The City shall provide a hearing room and functional recording equipment; shall
      schedule all necessary meetings before the City Council; shall provide an
      amplification system; and shall provide a staff person who shall be present at the
      hearings to operate the recording equipment, accept additional exhibits submitted
      at the hearing, and assist in the orderly conduct of the hearing. The City shall
      prepare a list of exhibits received prior to the hearing for the final written Hearing
      Examiner decision or recommendation.

5. Compensation

The City agrees to pay the Consultant on an hourly basis at the rate of TWO HUNDRED
AND SEVENTY DOLLARS ($270) per hour. Subsequent changes to the hourly rate
shall be negotiated between the parties at least 60 days prior to the end of each calendar
year. The hourly rate for hearing examiner services includes all costs. There is no
additional charge for costs because the hearings will be held remotely, eliminating the
need for travel expenses, and the City services address the material costs associated with
conducting hearings and rendering decisions, such as reproducing records and mailing. In
the event the Consultant provides hearing examiner services in person, the parties will
negotiate a reasonable rate for the costs incurred by the Consultant as a result.

6. Payment for Services

The Consultant shall provide to the City an invoice which clearly details and describes
the work completed, case number, the hours expended, dates worked and name(s) of
staff. The City shall remit payment to the Consultant within 30 days of receipt of invoice,
unless contested.

7. Standard Provisions of Agreement

The City and Consultant agree that the following provisions shall be a part of their
agreement:

   a) The City binds itself, its partners, successors, executors, administrators, and
      assigns to the Consultant to this agreement in respect to all of the terms and
      conditions of this agreement. The parties bind themselves, their partners,
      successors, executors, administrators, and assigns to this contract. Neither party
      shall assign its interest in this contract without the written consent of the other and
      the City reserves the right to refuse to allow an assignment for any reason. There
      are no understandings or agreements except as herein expressly stated.

       All final decisions, orders, and other documents issued by the Consultant in
       connection with services provided to the City, all exhibits submitted into the
       decision record, and all official recordings shall be the property of the City. All

                                                                                       Page
                                                                                   Page 3 of 7 31
         Professional Service Contract Agreement – Hearing Examiner Services


   such documents, exhibits, and recordings shall be forwarded to the City at its
   request and may be used by the City as it sees fit. The City agrees that if the
   documents, exhibits, and recordings are used for purposes other than those
   intended by the Agreement, the City does so at its sole risk and agrees to hold the
   Consultant harmless for such use. The Consultant will be permitted to retain
   secondary, working copies of the documents, exhibits, and recordings for its files.

   All services performed under this Agreement will be conducted solely for the
   benefit of the City and will not be used for any other purpose without written
   consent of the City.

b) The Consultant and its subconsultants shall keep available for inspection, by the
   City, for a period of three years after final payment, the cost records and accounts
   pertaining to this Agreement and all items related to, or bearing upon, these
   records. If any litigation, claim or audit is started before the expiration of the
   three-year retention period, the records shall be retained until all litigation, claims
   or audit findings involving the records have been resolved. The three-year
   retention period starts when the Consultant receives final payment.

c) Any litigation of this contract shall be brought and tried in judicial jurisdiction of
   King County at the Regional Justice Center, Kent, in accordance with the laws of
   the State of Washington.

d) In the event it becomes necessary for either party to seek enforcement of the terms
   or performance of this agreement, the prevailing party with or without litigation,
   shall be entitled to recover its reasonable attorney fees and other costs of
   proceeding. In determining the reasonable attorney fees and costs, the prevailing
   party’s actual attorneys fees and costs shall be deemed to be prima facie
   reasonable and the party opposing said amounts may do so only upon a showing
   by clear and convincing evidence that the attorney fees and other cost were
   unreasonable. Costs as used herein shall include the time devoted by the
   prevailing party’s personnel, at the then current billing rate incurred by the
   prevailing party in defending itself against the claim, or prosecuting the claim.

e) If a dispute arises out of or relates to this agreement, or the breach thereof, and if
   said dispute cannot be settled through direct discussions, the parties agree to first
   endeavor to settle the dispute in an amicable manner by mediation under the
   commercial mediation rules of the American Arbitration Association (AAA),
   before having recourse to a judicial forum; provided, however, that if one party
   fails or refuses to undergo good-faith mediation promptly on request, the other
   party is entitled to commence an action in court to seek enforcement of the terms
   or performance of this agreement. If this happens and the party who failed or
   refused to undergo mediation does not prevail in the court action, then the
   prevailing party shall, in addition to attorneys fees and costs and the judgment on
   the claim, be awarded liquidated damages in an amount equal to 10% of the
   judgment on the claim. Such liquidated damages are not in the nature of a
   penalty, but are for the purpose of reimbursing the prevailing party the additional
   business costs of time and disruption of office and personnel resulting from the

                                                                                    Page
                                                                                Page 4 of 7 32
         Professional Service Contract Agreement – Hearing Examiner Services


   need to undergo formal litigation without giving mediation a chance. The parties
   agree that such damages are difficult, if not impossible, to accurately prove and
   establish and do thereby agree that the 10% referenced above is a fair estimate
   which the parties intend to be binding upon them. Any mediator selected by the
   parties or AAA must also be approved by each party’s insurance company.

f) In the event that any changes are made in the plans and specifications by the City
   or persons other than the Consultant, which affect the Consultants work, any and
   all liability arising out of such changes is waived as against the Consultant and the
   City assumes full responsibility for such changes unless City has given Consultant
   prior notice and has received from Consultant written consent for such changes.

g) Upon written request, each of the parties hereto shall execute and deliver, or cause
   to be executed and delivered, such additional instruments and documents which
   may be necessary and proper to carry out of the terms of this agreement.

h) One or more waivers of compliance with any term, condition, or covenant by the
   Consultant shall not be construed by the City as a waiver of a subsequent breach
   of the same or any other term, condition, or covenant.

i) In the event any provision of this agreement shall be held to be invalid and
   unenforceable, the other provisions of this agreement shall be valid and binding
   on the parties thereto.

j) Services provided within this agreement are for the exclusive use of the City.
   Consultant shall claim no liability for loss of product, loss of profits, loss of use or
   any other indirect or consequential damage.

k) The Consultant shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City and its
   officers, officials, agents, employees, and volunteers from any and all costs,
   claims, injuries, damages, losses, suits, or liabilities, including attorneys’ fees,
   arising from the willful misconduct or negligent acts, errors or omissions of the
   Contractor, its officers, employees or agents in performing this Agreement.

   The City shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the Consultant and its
   officers, employees, and agents from any and all costs, claims, injuries, damages,
   losses, suits, or liabilities, including attorneys’ fees, arising from the willful
   misconduct or negligent acts, errors or omissions of the City, its officers, agents,
   employees, or volunteers in performing this Agreement.

   The Consultant’s obligations above do not extend to legal actions resulting from a
   written decision or recommendation made by the Consultant in performance of
   their quasi-judicial duties. The City will represent and defend the Consultant
   against all damage claims arising from, legal challenges to, or appeals of any
   written decision or recommendation, rendered by the Consultant when acting
   within the scope of their quasi-judicial duties under this Agreement. Such
   representation and defense shall be performed at the City’s sole cost and expense.



                                                                                     Page
                                                                                 Page 5 of 7 33
             Professional Service Contract Agreement – Hearing Examiner Services


8. Insurance

a. General:

The Consultant shall procure and maintain for the duration of the Agreement, insurance
against claims for injuries to persons or damage to property which may arise from or in
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Consultant, its agents,
representatives, or employees. Consultant’s maintenance of insurance as required by the
Agreement shall not be construed to limit the liability of the Consultant to the coverage
provided by such insurance, or otherwise limit the City’s recourse to any remedy
available at law or in equity.

b. Coverages:



1. Workers' Compensation. Workers’ Compensation coverage shall be provided as
   required by the industrial insurance laws of the State of Washington.

c. Other Requirements

1. Consultant's Insurance is Primary. The Consultant's insurance shall be primary to and
   not contributing with any insurance or self-insurance that may be carried by the City.

2. Acceptability of Insurers. The insurance policy(ies) shall be written by a reputable
   insurance company(ies) 1) acceptable to the City or with a current Best's Insurance
   Guide rating of A and class VII or better and 2) approved by the State Insurance
   Commissioner pursuant to RCW 48 to do business in the state of Washington. The
   City reserves the right to approve the security of the insurance coverage provided by
   the insurance company(ies), terms, endorsements, and conditions.

3. Evidences and Cancellation of Insurance. Prior to execution of the contract by the
   City, the Consultant shall file with the City evidences of insurance from the insurer(s)
   certifying to the coverage of all insurance and endorsements required herein.
   Consultant shall furnish the City with original certificates and a copy of the
   amendatory endorsements, including but not necessarily limited to the additional
   insured endorsement. The Consultant’s insurance shall be endorsed to state that
   coverage shall not be cancelled by either party, except after thirty (30) days prior
   written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, has been given to the City.
   The Consultant shall, upon demand of the City, deliver to the City a certified copy of
   any such policy or all such policies of insurance. Should the Consultant neglect to
   obtain and maintain in force any such insurance, the City may suspend or terminate
   the Consultant's Work. Suspension or termination of this Contract shall not relieve
   the Consultant from its insurance obligations hereunder.




                                                                                     Page
                                                                                 Page 6 of 7 34
            Professional Service Contract Agreement – Hearing Examiner Services



IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have accepted, made and executed this
agreement upon the terms, conditions, and provisions above stated and on the day and
year first above written.

Your signature hereunder acknowledges that you have read these provisions.

City of Enumclaw                             Hearing Examiner



Name: ______________________                 Name: _____________________



Title: _________________________             Title: _______________________



Date: ________________________               Date: _______________________




                                                                                  Page
                                                                              Page 7 of 7 35
                                                                                 Attachment 2



                                    BRIAN T. McGINN
                                      3521 S. Smith St.
                                    Spokane, WA 99223
                                       (509) 263-7047

EDUCATION:      Gonzaga University
                B.A. in Political Science, Minor in Speech Communications, 1990
                       Recruited and Received Scholarship to Debate for Gonzaga
                       Studied for Semester at Institute of Public Administration, Dublin, Ireland

                Gonzaga University School of Law
                Juris Doctorate, 1994
                       Elective courses emphasized law related to real estate, e.g. Land Use
                       and Zoning, Real Estate Transactions, Water Law, and Environmental Law

EMPLOYMENT:     Winston & Cashatt, PSC
                Real Estate and Land Use Attorney, November 1994 to January 2013
                       Primary Practice Areas: Land Use, Real Estate Transactions, and Real
                       Estate Litigation. Provided legal counsel with respect to local and municipal
                       law, administrative law and procedures, growth management law and policy,
                       land use and zoning regulations, and state environmental law.

                City of Spokane
                City of Spokane Hearing Examiner, February 1, 2013 to December 1, 2023
                        Applications for preliminary plats, planned unit developments, conditional use
                        permits, variances, site-specific rezones, etc.
                        Appeals regarding administrative decisions, code enforcement, civil seizure and
                        forfeiture, dangerous dog determinations, public records requests, etc.
                        Hearing Examiner Pro Tem for City of Spokane Valley, City of Cheney, City of
                        Chewelah, City of Airway Heights, City of Medical Lake, City of Liberty Lake,
                        Spokane County, Town of Millwood, City of Newport, and Sound Transit.

                Witherspoon Brajcich McPhee, PLLC
                Real Estate and Land Use Attorney, Commencing January 2024

ASSOCIATIONS:   Hearing Examiner Association of Washington
                Vice President/Secretary, October 2013 to October 2021
                President, October 2021 to October 2023

TEACHING &
SPEAKING:       Adjunct Faculty, Legal Research & Writing IV: Transactional Drafting,
                Gonzaga School of Law, January-April, 2011, January-April 2012

                The Effect of Zoning and Land Use on Real Property Development in Washington,
                Spokane, Washington, July 20, 2005.
                       Constitutional Limitations on Action;
                       Appealing an Administrative Zoning Decision

ADMITTED:       Washington State Bar Association
                WSBA No. 24110



                                                                                           Page 36
