                                         City of Duvall
                                            Washington


                                    ORDINANCE NO. 1353


               AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
                DUVALL, WASHINGTON, ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY
               MORATORIUM ON BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM
               FACILITY APPLICATIONS FOR SIX MONTHS; REQUIRING
                 A PUBLIC HEARING; ADOPTING FINDINGS OF FACT;
               PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY; AND ESTABLISHING AN
                               EFFECTIVE DATE.

Whereas, within the express terms of the Duvall Municipal Code (“DMC”) and the Growth
          Management Act, the Washington State Legislature has conferred upon the
          governing bodies of Washington code cities the right to establish and adopt
          moratoria related to land uses, as outlined in RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW
          36.70A.390; and
Whereas, a moratorium is a pause on new development, land use, and construction
          applications, which allows cities to consider new development and zoning
          regulations when existing regulations may be nonexistent or inadequate; and
Whereas, Battery Energy Storage System (“BESS”) facilities are installations designed to store
          electrical energy for later use, typically consisting of batteries, power conversion
          systems, and control equipment; and
Whereas, the primary function of BESS facilities is to store excess electricity generated during
          periods of low demand or high renewable energy production, such as from solar or
          wind sources. This stored energy can then be discharged when demand is high or
          when renewable energy generation is low, helping to stabilize the electrical grid and
          improve overall energy reliability; and
Whereas, time is needed for the City of Duvall (“City”) to study whether battery energy storage
          system facilities are compatible and should be allowed within City limits, either as a
          permitted or conditional use, and if so, in which zone(s) and whether current zoning
          regulations in Title 14 DMC and/or other official controls and development
          standards need to be updated to ensure such facilities can be safely and appropriately
          sited within the City; and
Whereas, the City’s development regulations, and specifically the definition of
          "subregional utility" per DMC 14.06.190, and the permitted and conditional uses
          provided in DMC Chapter 14.62.020, have not been updated to reflect recent
          technological changes and business models in the energy storage and electric utility
          industry; and
Whereas, applying these outdated regulations in Title 14 DMC to new technologies and
          business models could lead to approval of battery energy storage system facility
          projects that are undesirable, unsafe, and/or inconsistent with long-term planning
          goals and objectives of the City, particularly when the existing regulations have not
          been reviewed and updated for best practices nor reconsidered considering
          technological changes and potential effects such facilities have on surrounding
          areas and community resources; and
Whereas, the City Council of the City of Duvall (“City Council”) has determined the following
          facts and identified the following unknown risks and economic factors that may be
          relevant in assessing the desirability of, and siting concerns associated with, battery
          energy storage system facilities in the City of Duvall:
                 A. Battery energy storage systems are essentially rechargeable battery arrays
                     that store excess energy when demand on the electrical grid is low and can
                     feed power back into the system when demand is high (or energy
                     production is low).
                 B. The elements used in batteries can pose risks of explosion from
                     overheating and of environmental contamination.
                 C. Battery energy storage system facilities present fire hazards that can take
                     weeks to extinguish, requiring massive volumes of water and chemicals
                     to bring under control.
                 D. Battery energy storage system facilities are sites where hazardous
                     chemicals such as cyanide and hydrofluoric acid are present and thus pose
                     the potential for discharge to surrounding property, air, and groundwater
                     in the event of a fire.
                 E. Battery energy storage system facilities create potential for air quality
                     hazards in the event of a fire.
                 F. Battery energy storage system facilities may produce noise and visual
                     impacts that are not currently well understood by the City.
                 G. Battery energy storage system facilities may produce impacts on wildlife
                     that are not currently well understood by the City.
                 H. Battery energy storage system facilities may create additional strain on
                     local emergency response agencies and their personnel.
                 I. The Washington State Department of Ecology is beginning to compile
                     guidance on battery energy storage system facility sites that the City wishes
                     to study before updating its zoning and other regulations applicable to
                     battery energy storage system facilities.
                 J. The Washington State Legislature adopted House Bill 1216 in 2023, and
                     the State Building Code Council adopted new Washington State
                     regulations codified at WAC 51.54A.0322, intended to minimize the risks
                     posed by lithium-ion battery energy storage system facilities through fire
                     safety requirements and construction standards. The City of Duvall seeks
                     to study these new laws and regulations to determine their effects on local
                     regulatory authority.
                     Puget Sound Energy (“PSE”), which is conducting Requests For
                     Proposals for third-party private entities to develop energy storage
                   facilities connected via high-voltage transmission lines to PSE’s regional
                   substations, has published safety and reliability requirements for such
                   facilities that need to be explored and better understood before the City of
                   Duvall can determine whether to permit battery energy storage system
                   facilities in Duvall, and under what conditions.
                K. It is unknown what fiscal or economic development benefits would flow
                   to the City of Duvall if battery energy storage system facilities were
                   permitted within the City or which zone(s) would be most appropriate for
                   siting them. The City needs to investigate and analyze potential economic
                   impacts and tax revenues associated with such projects.
Whereas, due to the unique characteristics of battery energy storage system facilities, certain
          existing requirements in the DMC may not appropriately address or mitigate the
          community impacts and risks such facilities may present; and
Whereas, processing applications for land use approvals, development permits, and related
          applications or code interpretations for battery energy storage system facilities under
          existing zoning regulations and other official controls could potentially result in
          approvals of undesirable and incompatible development until such time that the City
          has properly reviewed its regulations and implemented any zoning code revisions or
          additional controls deemed necessary and proper for the health, safety, and general
          welfare of the City and its residents; and
Whereas, the City’s Comprehensive Plan update includes analysis and recommendations for
          needed zoning code amendments to implement the Land Use and Housing Element of
          the City of Duvall’s Comprehensive Plan; and
Whereas, it would be an efficient use of resources and an appropriate exercise of its planning
          authority under the Growth Management Act and Chapter 35A.63 RCW for the City to
          integrate an analysis of whether, and under what regulatory parameters, battery energy
          storage system facilities should be allowed uses within the City of Duvall with the
          City’s ongoing work in relation to its zoning updates resulting from the appeal of its
          Comprehensive Plan to the Growth Management Appeals Board; and
Whereas, the City Council has significant concerns about whether battery energy storage system
          facilities can be appropriately reviewed and analyzed under current regulations and
          finds that unless the City acts immediately to preserve the status quo, there are likely
          to be adverse impacts on the City and the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens; and
Whereas, pursuant to RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW 36.70A.390, the City of Duvall may adopt a
          moratorium that is effective for no longer than six months but may adopt a moratorium
          that is effective for up to 12 months if a work plan is developed for conducting
          appropriate studies and analyses over that longer period; and
Whereas, to promote public health, safety, and welfare, the City Council deems it necessary and
          proper to impose a moratorium on land use and development permit applications
          related to battery energy storage system facilities for a period of 12 months; and
Whereas, the City of Duvall possesses land use jurisdiction and regulatory authority over the
          City’s incorporated lands; and
Whereas, the adoption of this moratorium is exempt from the threshold determination
           requirements under the State Environmental Policy Act; and
Whereas, the moratorium imposed herein promotes the public good and is necessary for the
           protection of public health, property, safety, and welfare, and
Whereas, the City Council finds that a public emergency exists that requires the City’s immediate
           adoption of this moratorium to preserve the public health, safety, and welfare.

Now, Therefore, The City Council of the City of Duvall, Washington, do ordain as follows:
           Section 1. Preliminary Findings of Fact. The City Council adopts, as findings of
           fact, the. In contrast, recitals set forth above in support of the moratorium enacted by
           this ordinance, all of which are incorporated herein by reference. See Matson v. Clark
           County Board of Commissioners, 79 Wn. App. 641, 904 P.2d 317 (1995). The City
           Council may, in its discretion, adopt additional findings following the conclusion of
           the public hearing referenced in Section 5 below.

           Section 2. Moratorium Established. Pursuant to the provisions of Article 11, Section
           11, of the Washington State Constitution, RCW 35A.63.220, and RCW 36.70A.390, a
           moratorium is hereby enacted on the establishment, location, operation, maintenance,
           or continuation of battery storage energy systems as a land use or accessory use to any
           existing use. During the effective period of this moratorium, the City of Duvall will
           not accept, process, and/or approve applications for building permits, land development
           proposals, or development permits relating to or incorporating battery energy storage
           systems, including but not limited to, building permits, clearing and grading permits,
           short plats, subdivisions, binding site plans, sit plan reviews, conditional use permits,
           reasonable use exceptions, variances from DMC Title 14 regulations, or deviations
           from any City of Duvall engineering design and construction standards or other
           technical codes.

           Section 3. Effective Period for Renewal of the Moratorium. The moratorium
           outlined in this Ordinance shall be in effect for a period of 12 months from the date this
           ordinance is adopted and shall automatically expire at the conclusion of those 12
           months unless the same is extended as provided in RCW 35.A.63.220 and RCW
           36.70A.390, or unless terminated sooner by City Council.

           Section 4. Effect on Vested Rights. The moratorium imposed under Section 2 of this
           ordinance shall apply prospectively only after the effective date of this ordinance.
           Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to extinguish, limit, or otherwise infringe
           on any permit applicant’s vested development rights as defined by state law and the
           City of Duvall regulations. Any pending and complete applications for building
           permits, land development proposals, or development permits or interpretations of
           existing Duvall zoning regulations shall continue to be processed and reviewed under
           existing law (unless abandoned by the applicant), but the City’s decision shall indicated
           the Comprehensive Plan, applicable zoning regulations, and other official controls of
the City are under review and subject to change, and that the updated regulations, if
any, will apply to any development permit applications or land use approval
applications received after the moratorium is lifted.

Section 5. Public Hearing. In accordance with RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW
36.70A.390, the City Council will hold a public hearing on this matter on July 7, 2026.

Section 6. Referral to Staff and Work Plan. The City Council adopts the following
as its work plan, pursuant to RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW 36.70A.390, and authorizes
and requests staff and the Duvall Planning Commission to implement the work plan
during the next twelve (12) months:
    1. Study the issues identified in this ordinance.
    2. Consult with other governmental agencies, including, but not limited to:
        Eastside Fire and Rescue; the Puget Sound Clean Air Agency; the Duvall Police
        Department; King County; the Washington State Energy Facility Site
        Evaluation Council; electricity utility providers; the Snoqualmie Indian Tribe,
        and the Tulalip Tribes to study the potential impacts of battery energy storage
        systems in Duvall.
    3. Develop recommendations for whether battery energy storage systems should
        be allowed or conditional uses within the City of Duvall and, if so, what zoning
        and development regulations, along with associated public processes, are
        needed to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the community and ensure
        that such facilities are developed in a manner that is compatible with the overall
        development plan and vision for the City.
    4. This work plan is subject to change upon subsequent direction from the Duvall
        City Council, if any.

Section 7. Severability. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
ordinance, or its application to any person or situation, be declared unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid for any reason, or should any portion of this ordinance be pre-empted
by state or federal law or regulation, such decision or preemption shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance or its application to other persons
or situation. The City Council of the City of Duvall hereby declares that it would have
adopted this ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 8. Corrections. Upon the approval of the City Attorney, the City Clerk is
authorized to make any necessary corrections to this ordinance, including, but not
limited to, the correction of scrivener’s/clerical errors, references, ordinance
numbering, section/subsection numbers, and any reference thereto.

Section 9. Ratification. Any act consistent with the applicable authority before the
effective date of this ordinance is hereby ratified and affirmed.
                        Section 10: Declaration of Emergency. Pursuant to RCW 35A.12.130, the City
                        Council hereby declares that there is a significant potential for battery energy storage
                        systems to create substantial adverse effects on the public health, safety, and welfare
                        of Duvall residents if not addressed by adequate and appropriate development
                        regulations, and that, therefore, an emergency exists which necessitates that this
                        ordinance become effective immediately to preserve the public health, safety, and
                        welfare of Duvall residents.

                        Section 11. Effective Date. This ordinance shall be in full effect immediately upon
                        adoption. A summary of this ordinance may be published instead of publishing the
                        ordinance in its entirety.

            Passed unanimously by the entire City Council of the City of Duvall this Second day of June, 2026.

            Signed in authentication of its passage this Third day of June, 2026.

                                                                   CITY OF DUVALL




                                                                   ______________________________
                                                                   Amy McHenry, Mayor

            AUTHENTICATED:




            ________________________________
            John Botero, City Clerk




            APPROVED AS TO FORM:




            Oskar Rey, City Attorney




Date of Publication: June 5, 2026
Ord. 1353 - Approval of BESS Moratorium
Final Audit Report                                                                             2026-06-03

  Created:                 2026-06-03

  By:                      John Botero (john.botero@duvallwa.gov)

  Status:                  Signed

  Transaction ID:          CBJCHBCAABAAhdQY2o0SfiujyVZ9o2Y-h_OsDPRuKebY




"Ord. 1353 - Approval of BESS Moratorium" History
    Document created by John Botero (john.botero@duvallwa.gov)
    2026-06-03 - 6:42:15 PM GMT- IP address: 146.129.243.46


    Document emailed to Oskar Rey (orey@omwlaw.com) for signature
    2026-06-03 - 6:42:45 PM GMT


    Email viewed by Oskar Rey (orey@omwlaw.com)
    2026-06-03 - 6:42:53 PM GMT- IP address: 162.43.250.157


    Document e-signed by Oskar Rey (orey@omwlaw.com)
    Signature Date: 2026-06-03 - 7:17:36 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 20.237.240.94 - Signature Appearance Selected: IMAGE


    Document emailed to Amy McHenry (amy.mchenry@duvallwa.gov) for signature
    2026-06-03 - 7:17:41 PM GMT


    Email viewed by Amy McHenry (amy.mchenry@duvallwa.gov)
    2026-06-03 - 9:21:43 PM GMT- IP address: 146.129.243.46


    Document e-signed by Amy McHenry (amy.mchenry@duvallwa.gov)
    Signature Date: 2026-06-03 - 9:22:02 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 146.129.243.46 - Signature Appearance Selected:
    MOBILE_IMAGE


    Agreement completed.
    2026-06-03 - 9:22:02 PM GMT
