ORDINANCE NO. 26-1258

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BLACK DIAMOND,
WASHINGTON, EXTENDING INTERIM ZONING
CONTROLS TO PROHIBIT BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE
FACILITIES WITHIN THE CITY OF BLACK DIAMOND,
SUBJECT TO AN EXCEPTION FOR SYSTEMS WITH
TOTAL POWER OF 20 KILLOWATTS OR _ LESS;
DECLARING AN EMERGENCY; PROVIDING FOR
SEVERABILITY; AND PROVIDING THAT THE
ORDINANCE WILL TAKE EFFECT IMMEDIATELY IF
APPROVED BY A MAJORITY PLUS ONE OF THE FULL
COUNCIL.

WHEREAS, within the express terms of the Optional Municipal Code and the
Growth Management Act, the Washington State Legislature has conferred upon the
governing bodies of Washington code cities the right to establish interim zoning controls
and adopt moratoria related to land uses, as set forth in RCW 36.70A.390 and RCW
35A.63.220; and

WHEREAS, the City has received interest and inquiries from a developer and
potential applicant for land use approvals and development permits relating to battery
energy storage facilities, in which questions have been posed regarding whether such
facilities are allowed under the City’s zoning code, as set forth in Title 18 of the Black
Diamond Municipal Code (BDMC); and

WHEREAS, the City Council wishes to avoid approval of battery storage projects
that are undesirable, unsafe, and/or inconsistent with long-term planning goals and
objectives of the City, particularly when the City’s zoning regulations have not been
reviewed and updated for best practices nor reconsidered in light of technological
changes and potential effects such facilities have on surrounding areas and community
resources; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined the following facts, and identified the
following unknown risks and economic factors, that may be relevant in assessing the
desirability of, and siting concerns associated with, battery energy storage facilities in the
City of Black Diamond:

A. Battery energy storage systems are essentially rechargeable battery
arrays that store excess energy when demand on the electrical grid
is low and can feed power back into the system when demand is high
(or energy production is low).

B. The elements used in batteries can pose risks of explosion from
overheating and of environmental contamination.

C. Battery energy storage facilities present fire hazards that can take
days or weeks to extinguish, requiring massive volumes of water and


chemicals to bring under control, and constant monitoring by fire
department personnel during active fire events.
. Battery energy storage facilities are sites where hazardous
chemicals such as cyanide and hydrofluoric acid are present and
thus pose the potential for discharge to surrounding property, air, and
groundwater in the event of a fire.
. Battery energy storage facilities create potential for air quality
hazards in the event of a fire.
. Battery energy storage facilities may produce noise and visual
impacts that are not currently well understood by the City.
. Battery energy storage facilities may produce impacts to wildlife that
are not currently well understood by the City.
. Battery energy storage facilities may create additional strain on local
emergency response agencies and their personnel.
The Washington State Department of Ecology is compiling guidance
on battery energy storage facility siting that the City wishes to study
before adopting permanent zoning code changes.
. The State Legislature adopted House Bill 1216 in 2023, and new
Washington state regulations codified at WAC 51.54A.0322 and
intended to minimize the risks of lithium-ion battery energy storage
facilities through fire safety requirements and construction standards
will take effect soon. The City desires to study these new laws and
regulations to determine what effects they will have on local
regulatory authority.

. In October 2024, the King County Council adopted extensive

revisions to the King County Code to allow battery energy storage

facilities to be sited in large portions of unincorporated King County.

The City desires to further analyze King County’s recent regulatory

directives before finalizing updates to the City’s zoning regulations

and official controls.

. Puget Sound Energy, which is conducting RFPs for third-party
private entities to develop energy storage facilities to connect via
high-voltage transmission lines to PSE’s regional substations, has
published safety and reliability requirements for such facilities that
need to be explored and better understood before the City can
determine whether to permit utility-scale battery energy storage
facilities in the City, and under what conditions.

. In 2024, there were 34 BESS fires in the U.S., 33 of which involved
lithium-ion battery technology.

. 90 percent of current BESS installations in the U.S. include lithium-

ion batteries, most of which were installed prior to 2020 and do not

have integrated fire suppression, advanced thermal management
technology, or comply with UL 9540A testing protocols. However,
battery technology is improving and safety protocols are evolving,


which hold the potential for substantially reducing risks associated
with BESS facilities.

. Key safety improvements in modern BESS facilities include: battery
chemistry advancements, improved container design with fire-
isolation and gas-detection systems, fire detection and suppression
systems, cooling systems, and new national standards.

. Battery advancements include switching to lithium ion phosphate
chemistry, which are more thermally stable and have a lower risk of
thermal runaway than older lithium-ion chemistry.

. Improved BESS container designs include thermal barriers to isolate
individual battery cells to prevent cascading failures. Modular
outdoor enclosures are also less prone to fire spread compared to
enclosed buildings. BESS facilities can also now be designed to
include sensors and continuous monitoring for temperature, voltage,
current, toxic gases, smoke, and heat, and may trigger automatic
shut-down of battery cells when excess levels are detected.

. Enhanced thermal management and redundant cooling systems can
also be implemented in modern BESS designs to prevent
overheating during peak load or failure scenarios.
. New national safety standards and testing protocols have been
developed for BESS facilities, including NFPA 855; UL9540, and UL
9540A, with further updates to standards expected to be published
in 2025, which may be incorporated into city zoning codes.
. Cities may be able to negotiate contractual arrangements with BESS
developers that enable direct connection from BESS facilities to
critical city infrastructure, such as cooling centers, utilities, city hall,
etc., to provide reliable backup power in the event of grid outages or
brownouts.
. Cost-benefit concerns remain uncertain. Sales tax would primarily be
a one-time event during construction, although future upgrades or
repairs may generate some local sales tax revenue. Property tax
would likely be the primary economic benefit to the City and would
largely depend on the assessed value of the BESS facility. If hosted
on City property, a BESS facility could also generate annual lease
payments or other benefits, such as discounted energy. It is
uncertain whether these potential benefits would offset the potential
costs in terms of opportunity cost for other uses of land and increases
in public safety expenditures necessitated by BESS facilities (to the
extent not mitigated by applicable permit conditions).

. The City’s fire protection and emergency medical response services
may not have adequate staffing and resources available to respond
to intense and long-burning fires at battery energy storage facilities


without compromising its ability to respond to other residential and
commercial fire and medical emergencies elsewhere in the City.

WHEREAS, on February 15, 2024, pursuant to Ordinance No. 24-1205, the Black
Diamond City Council adopted a one-year moratorium on the acceptance, processing,
and/or approval of land use and development permit applications for battery energy
storage systems and facilities to be sited within the City; and

WHEREAS, the City Council extended the moratorium for an additional six months
via Ordinance No. 25-1219, and subsequently held a duly noticed public hearing on
February 20, 2025; and

WHEREAS, the City Council extended the moratorium for an additional six months
via Ordinance No. 25-1230, and subsequently held a duly noticed public hearing on
October 2, 2025; and

WHEREAS, the City Council adopted interim zoning controls prohibiting the siting
of battery energy storage systems within the City, effective for a period of (6) months, via
Ordinance No. 26-1246, and subsequently held a duly noticed public hearing on April 7,
2026; and

WHEREAS, the City Council's inclination after reviewing the information gathered
to date has been to conclude that the risks of allowing utility-scale or industrial-scale
battery energy storage systems to be located in the City outweigh the identified benefits,
but the Council remains mindful of the role that battery energy storage may play in
increasing the reliability and capacity of the electrical grid for residential and commercial
consumers in the City; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has significant concerns about whether battery
energy storage facilities can be appropriately reviewed and analyzed under the
regulations that would be in effect if the interim zoning controls were to expire, and finds
that unless the City acts immediately to preserve the status quo, there are likely to be
adverse impacts on the City and the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW 36.70A.390, the City Council
may extend the adopted interim zoning controls for a period of six (6) months to allow for
findings of fact supporting the need for continuing interim controls and holds a public
hearing within sixty (60) days of adoption; and

WHEREAS, to promote the public health, safety, and welfare, the City Council
deems it necessary and proper to extend the interim zoning controls to prohibit the siting
of battery energy storage facilities within the City for an additional six months, while
permanent regulations are finalized and proceed through the adoption process; and

WHEREAS, the City Council deems it appropriate to hold a public hearing on
October 6, 2026, and may adopt additional findings following the conclusion of said public
hearing; and


WHEREAS, the City Council deems it appropriate to carve out an exception for
small-scale battery energy storage systems of twenty kilowatts (20kW) or less, which
would be allowed, subject to proper permitting, during the effective period of the extended
interim zoning controls governing BESS;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLACK DIAMOND,
WASHINGTON, DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Findings. The recitals set forth above are hereby adopted as the City
Council's findings in support of extending the interim zoning controls on the siting of
battery energy storage systems for an additional six (6) months. The City Council may, in
its discretion, adopt additional findings following the conclusion of the public hearing
referenced in Section 5 below.

Section 2. Interim Zoning Controls Extended. Pursuant to the provisions of
Article 11, Section 11 of the Washington State Constitution, RCW 35A.63.220, and RCW
36.70A.390, the City’s prohibition on siting of battery energy storage system facilities, as
enacted via Ordinance No. 26-1246, is hereby extended for an additional six (6) months,
but modified to include an exception allowing the installation of small-scale battery energy
storage systems of twenty kilowatts (20kW) or less. Accordingly, during that time period,
Sections 18.100.125 and 18.100.710 of the Black Diamond Municipal Code shall read as
follows (new text shown in underline format):

18.100.125 Battery Energy Storage System

A_system_ consisting of one or more rechargeable batteries
assembled together, capable of storing energy in order to supply
electrical energy at_a future time. Such systems typically include battery
chargers, controls, power conditioning systems, and associated electrical
equipment, and are typically used to provide standby or emergency power,
uninterruptable power supply, load shedding, load sharing, smoothing and
dispatching of intermittent _ renewable energy sources, or similar

capabilities.
18.100.710 Utilities

Facilities, either publicly or privately owned, for the conveyance of
power, water, waste and storm water, and communications, whether
"above ground" or "below ground" installations. As used in this Title
18, “utilities” includes battery energy storage systems only when the
total system power is twenty (20) kilowatts or less. “Utilities” excludes
utility-scale_and_industrial-scale battery energy storage systems,
which are prohibited in all zones throughout the city.

Section 3. Effective Period for Interim Zoning Controls. The interim zoning
controls imposed in Section 2 will remain in effect for a period of six (6) months from the



effective date of this Ordinance and shall automatically expire at the conclusion of that
time period unless the same is further extended as provided in RCW 35A.63.220 and
RCW 36.70A.390, or unless terminated sooner by the City Council.

Section 4. Effect on Vested Rights. Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed
to extinguish, limit, or otherwise infringe on any permit applicant's vested development
rights as defined by state law and City of Black Diamond regulations.

Section 5. Public Hearing. Pursuant to RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW 36.70A.390,
the City Council will hold a public hearing at its regular meeting at 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday,
October 6, 2026, or as soon thereafter as the business of the City Council shall permit, in
order to take public testimony on this interim zoning control and to consider adopting
further findings.

Section 6. Severability. If any one or more section, subsection, or sentence of
this Ordinance or its application to any person or circumstance is held to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this Ordinance or its application to other persons and circumstances.

Section 7. Corrections by City Clerk or Code Reviser. Upon approval of the
City Attorney, the City Clerk and the code reviser are authorized to make necessary
corrections to this Ordinance, including the correction of clerical errors; references to
other local, state or federal laws, codes, rules, or regulations; or ordinance numbering
and section/subsection numbering.

Section 8. Declaration of Emergency and Effective Date. The City Council
hereby finds and declares that there is a significant potential for battery energy storage
facilities to create substantial adverse effects on the public health, safety, and welfare if
not addressed by adequate and appropriate development regulations, and that, therefore,
an emergency exists which necessitates that this Ordinance become effective
immediately in order to preserve the public health, safety, and welfare. Pursuant to
Matson v. Clark County Board of Commissioners, 79 Wn. App. 641, 904 P.2d 317 (1995),
non-exhaustive underlying facts necessary to support this emergency declaration are
included in the recitals above, all of which are adopted by reference as findings of fact as
if fully set forth herein. If approved by a majority-plus-one of the City Council, this
Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon passage. If approved by only a
simple majority, this Ordinance shall become effective five days after publication as
provided by law. The City Clerk shall publish a summary of this Ordinance at the earliest
possible publication date.

ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL AT A REGULAR MEETING THEREOF ON
THE 187 DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2026.

CITY OF BLACK DIAMOND


ATTEST/AUTHENTICATED:

Erira_ £ {Vandi

Brenda L. Martinez, City Clerk)

Approved as to form:

David A. Linehan, City Attorney

Filed with the City Clerk: ange
Passed by the City Council: 4/« LEZ
Ordinance No. 26-1258

Date of Publication: 4 (4) @ nye

Effective Date: a] | oe

Jétn Adler, Mayor
