ORDINANCE NO. 3915

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON, WASHINGTON, RATIFYING,
RENEWING, CONFIRMING, AND CONTINUING THE MORATORIUM PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED
BY COUNCIL THROUGH ORDINANCE 3913 PURSUANT TO RCW 35A.63.220 AND RCW
36.70A.390; RELATING TO BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS; ADOPTING FINDINGS
OF FACT JUSTIFYING ITS ACTION; PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY; AND ESTABLISHING
AN EFFECTIVE DATE

WHEREAS, RCW 36.70A.390 and RCW 35A.63.220 authorizes the City of Mount Vernon
to enact moratoria while new regulations are considered and prepared; and requires the City
to hold a public hearing on a moratorium within 60-days of adoption; and

WHEREAS, on May 28, 2025, at a regularly scheduled City Council meeting, the City
Council declared an emergency and adopted a moratorium on accepting applications for
permits to construct, site, or develop battery energy storage system(s) primarily intended, or
likely to be used, to store and supply electrical power to the electrical grid within the City,
adopting findings of fact, and directing City staff schedule the necessary public hearings as
required by law within 60-days; and

WHEREAS, on July 23, 2025, the City held a public hearing regarding the continuation of
the moratorium established by Ordinance 3913; and

WHEREAS, the City finds an emergency continues to exists as set forth in Ordinance No.
3913 and that there remains an urgent need to keep a moratorium in place and have the
City’s Development Services Department research battery energy storage systems and draft
proposed permanent regulations to be considered through the City’s public participation
process allowing for public input and providing for public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council.

NOW THEREFORE THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON, WASHINGTON,
DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. RECITALS INCORPORATED. City Council adopts the recitals set forth above as
additional findings of fact justifying adoption of this Ordinance and reaffirms the adoption of the findings in
Ordinance 3913 (attached to this Ordinance identified as Exhibit A) enacting a moratorium and incorporates
those findings (including their recitals) as if set forth fully herein. The Council may adopt additional findings
in the event additional public hearings are held or evidence presented to the City Council.

SECTION 2. ADDITIONAL FINDINGS. The City Council adopts these additional findings and
conclusions:

1. After hearing all public testimony, reviewing the City’s Comprehensive Plan and the legislative
record in its entirety the City Council finds that: i) an emergency exists, and ii) the continuance of a
moratorium on accepting applications for permits to construct, site, or develop battery energy storage
system(s) that are primarily intended (or likely to be used) to store and supply electrical power to the
electrical grid within the City is justified until the City can fully study the issue and that permanent
development regulations be adopted through the City’s otherwise required legislative process; and

2. Continuing Ordinance 3913 is necessary for the immediate preservation of the public welfare and
economic vitality until all necessary code revisions and/or additions have been adopted by the City
Council and is a legitimate exercise of the City’s police power; and

Ordinance 3915
Page 1 of S


3. A work plan is attached to this Ordinance identified as Exhibit B and includes tasks for related studies
with target completion dates providing for a period longer than six months justifying the moratorium
being in place for more than six months.

SECTION 3. The City Council hereby ratifies, continues, and renews the moratorium in its entirety
adopted through Ordinance 3913 and its associated attachments. The moratorium in Ordinance 3913 will
remain in effect until the City completes the otherwise required legislative process for the adoption of
permanent code amendments. City Council shall make a decision to terminate the interim controls and
regulations by ordinance, and termination shall not otherwise be presumed to have occurred. The City shall
hold all necessary public hearings and adopt new findings as required under RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW
36.70A.390 if necessary and justified to continue the imposition of this Ordinance and Ordinance 3913 until
the City’s review has been completed.

SECTION 4. EFFECTIVE PERIOD. This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon passage by the
City Council. This ordinance shall apply for a maximum of one year from the adoption of Ordinance 3913
unless earlier terminated or not renewed after a subsequent public hearing is held.

SECTION 5. CITY TO CONSIDER PERMANENT REGULATIONS. The City Council hereby directs
that the City’s Development Services Department continue research battery energy storage systems, and to
proceed with drafting proposed permanent regulations to be considered through the City’s public participation
process including allowing for public input and providing for public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council.

SECTION 6. ORDINANCE TO BE TRANSMITTED TO DEPARTMENT. Pursuant to RCW
36.70A.106, this Interim Ordinance shall be transmitted to the Washington State Department of Commerce
as required by law.

SECTION 7. SEVERABILITY. If any section, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance should be
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or
unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity or constitutionality of any other section, sentence, clause, or
phrase of this ordinance.

SECTION 8. PUBLICATION. This Ordinance shall be published by an approved summary consisting of
the title.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 23" day of July, 2025

Ordinance 3915
Page 2 of 5


yr
SIGNED AND APPROVED this 2 day of July, 2025.

= eet

Peter Donovan, Mayor

Becky Jensen, City Clerk

Approved as to form:

<A.

Kevin Rogerson, City Attorney

Avgust &,
Published du 26, 2025

Ordinance 3915
Page 3 of 5


EXHIBIT A
ORDINANCE 3913

Ordinance 3915
Page 4 of 5


ORDINANCE NO. 3913

An Interim Ordinance Declaring an Emergency and Adopting a Moratorium on the
Acceptance of Applications for Permits to Develop Certain Types of
Battery Energy Storage Systems used to Provide Power to an Electrical Grid

WHEREAS, the increasing demand for electricity as an energy source has resulted in
some unanticipated impacts including the emergence of battery energy storage systems intended
primarily to store and provide electrical energy to an electrical power grid; and

WHEREAS, battery energy storage systems, which have been used on a small scale to
provide back-up power for residential users and small businesses, are being developed for use by
electrical utilities and other suppliers to store electricity and release it on demand to all users on
an electrical grid; and

WHEREAS, battery energy storage systems are frequently manufactured to fit batteries,
chargers, controls, power conditioning systems in a single trailer-sized container, with
transmission lines connecting the system to the electrical grid; and

WHEREAS, a battery energy storage system may consist of a single container or
numerous containers known as a battery farm set within a large warehouse or outdoors in a field;
and

WHEREAS, because the batteries used in battery storage systems commonly use lithium-
ion technology, their large scale use presents a significant risk of fire hazards and thermal
runaway events; and

WHEREAS, other known impacts from battery energy storage systems include noise
pollution and the possibility of an adverse effect on aesthetics if constructed in sections of the
City that may be incompatible with such use, including residential and retail areas; and

WHEREAS, the City does not presently have siting criteria for battery energy storage
systems or regulations to address safety standards, security requirements, emergency response
plans including fire suppression and evacuation plans, or standards for design, installation, and
operation; and

WHEREAS, such criteria and regulations are necessary to address the unknown risks
presented by large scale battery energy storage systems; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that current land use regulations do not identify or
address the use of battery energy storage systems that will be used to supplant a utility’s
production of electrical energy; and

WHEREAS, RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW 36.70A.390 authorize cities to adopt interim
land use regulations, official controls and moratoria to preserve the status quo while new plans or


regulations are considered and prepared and to renew such interim regulations, official controls,
and moratoria; and

WHEREAS, RCW 36.70A.390 and RCW 35A.63.220 authorize that, so long as a
subsequent public hearing is held and a work plan is adopted, a moratorium can be in place for up
to one year; and

WHEREAS, without the adoption of this interim moratorium, there is the potential that
battery energy storage facilities used to provide energy to the electrical grid could be sited within
the City absent necessary regulations to ensure public safety and to preserve neighborhood
aesthetics; and

WHEREAS, RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW 36.70A.390 authorize the City to adopt a
moratorium or interim control on development and to hold a public hearing on the moratorium or
interim control within 60 days of the commencement of the moratorium, and

WHEREAS, the City needs time to review information that affects the siting of battery
energy storage systems intended to supply power to the electrical grid and to review the Mount
Vernon Municipal Code in a comprehensive fashion to determine whether it sufficiently
addresses the impacts of such uses and, if not, to adopt appropriate permanent regulations; and

WHEREAS, the Mount Vernon City Council deems it to be in the public interest to adopt
the regulations and prohibitions set forth in this ordinance to allow for a thorough review to
address the impacts ; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that an emergency exists within the City and that
imposing a moratorium on the acceptance of applications to site a battery energy storage system
within the City is necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
welfare and for the support of City government and its existing institutions until additional
review has been completed and any necessary code revisions have been adopted by the City
Council; and

WHEREAS, the City utilized the State Attorney General Advisory Memorandum:
Avoiding Unconstitutional Takings of Private Property for evaluating constitutional issues, in
conjunction with and to inform its review of the Ordinance. The City has utilized the process, a
process protected under Attorney-Client privilege pursuant to law including RCW
36.70A.370(4), with the City Attorney’s Office which has reviewed this ordinance, including the
“warning signals’ identified in the Memorandum, with decisions makers, and conducted an
evaluation of all constitutional provisions potentially at issue and advised of the genuine legal
risks, if any, with the adoption of this Ordinance to assure that the proposed regulatory or
administrative actions did not result in an unconstitutional taking of private property, consistent
with RCW 36.70A.370(2).

NOW THEREFORE THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON,
WASHINGTON, DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:


SECTION 1. Findings. That the City Council adopts the recitals set forth above as its
findings of fact justifying adoption of this Ordinance enacting the moratorium and official
controls as set forth herein and incorporates those recitals as if set forth fully herein. The
Council may adopt additional findings in the event that additional public hearings are held or
evidence presented to the City Council.

SECTION 2. Additional Findings. The City Council adopts the additional findings and
conclusions:

A. An interim moratorium is a recognized technique to stem a potential rush for permits
whenever a community decides to change its planning ordinances in order to prevent
development inconsistent with the ultimate planning design that might be approved.

B. That pursuant to WAC 197-11-880, the adoption of this ordinance is exempt from the
requirements of a threshold determination under the State Environmental Policy Act.

C. The City of Mount Vernon’s Comprehensive Plan is hereby adopted by reference and
shall be incorporated by this reference into the City’s findings for this Ordinance.

D. The moratorium shall be effective for at least six (6) months unless, before the public
hearing, Development Services provides a work plan for necessary studies, in which case
this moratorium shall be effective for twelve (12) months.

E. The moratorium may be renewed for one or more six (6) month periods if a subsequent
public hearing(s) is held and findings of fact are made prior to each renewal.

F. The United States Supreme Court in Tahoe-Sierra Preservation Council, Inc. v. Tahoe
Regional Planning Agency, 535 U.S. 302 (2002), held that moratoria are essential tools
for successful development and re-affirmed that moratoria are not per se takings.

SECTION 3. Moratorium Imposed. Pursuant to the provisions of RCW 36.70A.390 and
RCW 35A.63.220 the City hereby adopts a moratorium on accepting applications for permits to
construct, site, or develop a battery energy storage system that is intended or likely to be used to
primarily store and supply electrical power to the electrical grid within the City.

SECTION 4. Effective Period. This ordinance is immediately adopted and shall apply for
one year from the date of its adoption unless earlier terminated or not renewed after a subsequent
public hearing is held.

SECTION 5. Hearing To Be Held. Pursuant to RCW 36.70A.390 and/or RCW 35A.63.220,
the City Council shall hold a public hearing on this interim zoning ordinance within 60 days of
its adoption.

SECTION 6. City to Consider Permanent Regulations. The City Council hereby directs that
the City Development Services Department begin research on battery energy storage systems
used to provide power to the electrical grid and begin the process of drafting proposed permanent
regulations to be considered through the City’s public participation process including allowing
for public input and providing for public hearings before the Planning Commission and City
Council.

SECTION 7. Severability. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance should
be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or


unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity or constitutionality of any other section, sentence,
clause or phrase of this ordinance.

SECTION 8. Effective Date and Declaration of Emergency. The City Council hereby
declares that an emergency exists necessitating that this Ordinance take effect immediately upon
passage by a majority plus one of the whole membership of the Council, and that the same is not
subject to a referendum. If this ordinance is not adopted immediately, applications for uses,
building applications, permits or other types of land use/development permits/approvals could
arguably become vested leading to development and land uses incompatible with the regulations
eventually adopted by the City in its comprehensive review and formal regulation
amendment/adoption process. Therefore, the moratorium ordinance must be adopted
immediately as an emergency measure to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and to
prevent the submission of applications, proliferation of incompatible land uses and efforts to
incorrectly interpret existing regulations, in an attempt to vest rights for an indefinite period of
time.

SECTION 9. Ordinance to be Transmitted to Department. Pursuant to RCW 36.70A.106,
this Interim Ordinance shall be transmitted to the Washington State Department of Commerce as
required by law.

SECTION 12. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published by an approved summary
consisting of the title.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 28" day of May, 2025
SIGNED AND APPROVED this" day of June, 2025.

Peter Donovan, Mayor

Attest:

Beck Tenser{ S Clerk

Approved as to form:

aes
am

Kevin Rogerson, City Attorney

August’
Published-May-3t, 2025



EXHIBIT B
DEVELOPMENT SERVICES WORK PLAN

A. July 2025 to December 2025: study of potential impacts and mitigation measures of battery energy
storage systems to property and people living within and near as well as visiting the City.

B. January to February 2026: meetings with City Council, Planning Commission, and other interested
parties to discuss the interim regulations.

C. March to April 2026: Completion of paperwork and processes with the Department of Commerce,
and the City (SEPA and Notice of Public Hearings).

D. April to May 2026:
a. Public hearing(s) before the Planning Commission
b. Pubic hearings before the City Council
c. Adoption of permanent regulations

Ordinance xxxx

Page 5 of 5
