                          CITY OF MOUNT VERNON
                             COUNCIL MEETING
                                  AGENDA
                          May 27, 2026, 7:00 p.m.
                       Police Court Campus, 1805 Continental Place




      To virtually attend the meeting, the public may:
         1. Watch the meeting live on TV10: Comcast/Xfinity Channel 10
         2. Watch the meeting live, online:
              https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUob_hcQUmd4S93YkletdrA

1. OPENING CEREMONIES
     A. Call to Order
     B. Pledge of Allegiance
     C. Roll Call of Councilmembers

2. APPROVAL OF AGENDA

3. COMMUNITY COMMENTS
     (This is an opportunity for Mount Vernon residents to address their
     City Council. Please provide your information on the guest sign-in
     sheet located on the table near the entrance to the Council Chambers
     prior to speaking, and limit comments to three minutes or less. Under
     normal circumstances, the Mayor and Council will not respond
     immediately to Community Comments. If you would like someone to
     follow up with you regarding the topic of your comments, please
     leave your name and contact information on the form at the entrance
     of the Council Chambers. If you are unable to attend the meeting
     and would like to make your comments via Zoom, please submit a
     request          to         speak         via        email         to
     communitycomments@mountvernonwa.gov or by telephone at
     360-336-6211. Requests must be received by 4 p.m. on the meeting
     date.)

      Interpretation services for Community Comments are available on
      request. Please contact the City at mvmayor@mountvernonwa.gov
      or 360-336-6211 at least two business days prior to the meeting if
      you would like an interpreter to share your comments with City
      Council.

      Servicios de interpretación para los comentarios de la comunidad
      están disponibles previa solicitud. Por favor, comuníquese con la


Mount Vernon City Council Agenda
May 27, 2026
Page 2 of 2


         Ciudad a través de MVMayor@mountvernonwa.gov o llamando al
         360-336-6211 con al menos dos días hábiles de antelación a la
         reunión, si desea contar con un intérprete para compartir sus
         comentarios con el Concejo Municipal.


4. CONSENT AGENDA
     A. Approval of May 13, 2026, Council Meeting minutes
     B. Approval of May 20, 2026, Special Council Meeting minutes
     C. Approval of May 20, 2026, Payroll
     D. Approval of May 27, 2026, Claims
     E. Approval of Agreement – Community Action of Skagit County
     F. Project Acceptance – Trico Companies, LLC

5. REPORTS
     A. Councilmember Comments
     B. Mayor’s Report

6. NEW BUSINESS
     A. Public Hearing and Approval of Resolution – Veterans Affairs (VA) Clinic
        Permit Consolidation
             (Staff is requesting approval of Resolution 1099 consolidating permits for VA Clinic located
             at 1501 Continental Place.)
             (required action – resolution)
             (staff contact – Rebecca Lowell)

         B. Public Hearing and Approval of Ordinance – Updated Work Plan for
            Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS)
             (Staff is requesting adoption of Ordinance 3940 approving an updated work plan to
             establish permanent regulations for BESS.)
             (required action – ordinance)
             (staff contact – Rebecca Lowell)

         C. Public Hearing and Approval of Ordinance – Cascade Medical Properties
            Rezone PLAN25-0535
             (Staff is requesting adoption of Ordinance 3941 approving Cascade Medical Properties
             Rezone PLAN25-0535.)
             (required action – ordinance)
             (staff contact – Rebecca Perkins)

         D. Presentation – Development Services Permitting Process
             (Staff will present Development Services permitting processes.)
             (required action – none)
             (staff contact – Steve Sexton)

         E. Approval of Ordinance – 2026 Budget Amendment
             (Staff is requesting approval of Ordinance 3942 amending the 2026 City Budget.)
             (required action – ordinance)
             (staff contact – Doug Volesky)

         F. Approval of Resolution – Dissolve Petty Cash Funds
             (Staff is requesting approval of Resolution 1100 dissolving Petty Cash Funds.)
             (required action – resolution)
             (staff contact – Doug Volesky)


Mount Vernon City Council Agenda
May 27, 2026
Page 3 of 2


         G. Approval of Resolution – Establish Bank Account for Emergency Medical
            Services (EMS) Billing
             (Staff is requesting approval of Resolution 1101 to establish bank account for EMS billing.)
             (required action – resolution)
             (staff contact – Doug Volesky)


7. EXECUTIVE SESSION

8. ADJOURNMENT


                                                             CONSENT ITEM: A




                              City of Mount Vernon
                          City Council Meeting Minutes
                                  May 13, 2026
                  Police Court Campus, 1805 Continental Place

Present
Mayor Donovan
Councilmembers:    Daman, Hudson, Oliver, Tercero, Vander Stoep, West
Absent             Beaton
Staff:             City Attorney Rogerson, Development Services Director
                   Sexton, Human Resources Director Keator, Parks &
                   Recreation Director Berner, Library Director Huffman,
                   Finance Director Volesky, Fire Chief Harris, Special Projects
                   Manager Pearson, IT Director Thomas, Public Works
                   Director Phillips, Executive Assistant Grechishkin


1. OPENING CEREMONIES
   A. Mayor Donovan called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m.
   B. Mayor Donovan led the pledge of allegiance
   C. Ms. Grechishkin called roll of Councilmembers

   EXECUTIVE SESSION

   The meeting was adjourned into Executive Session at 7:03 p.m. for a
   period of 10 minutes to discuss with legal counsel matters relating to
   agency enforcement actions, or to discuss with legal counsel representing
   the agency litigation or potential litigation to which the agency, the
   governing body, or a member acting in an official capacity is, or is likely to
   become, a party, when public knowledge regarding the discussion is likely
   to result in an adverse legal or financial consequence to the agency
   pursuant to RCW 42.30.110.(1) (i). No final action will be taken. The
   meeting will reconvene at 7:13 p.m.

   At 7:13 p.m. the Executive Session was extended for 10 minutes.


Mount Vernon City Council
May 13, 2026
Page 2 of 4

     The meeting reconvened at 7:24 p.m.

2. APPROVAL OF AGENDA

             Councilmember Vander Stoep moved to approve the
             agenda   as   presented.    Motion   seconded by
             Councilmember Tercero. Motion passed 6-0.


3. COMMUNITY COMMENTS

                 Sage Wilkirk, Mount Vernon resident, spoke about Flock camera
                  searches.

4. CONSENT AGENDA

       A.   Approval of April 27, 2026, Joint Council Meeting minutes
       B.   Approval of April 29, 2026, Special Council Meeting minutes
       C.   Approval of May 5, 2026, Payroll
       D.   Approval of May 13, 2026, Claims
       E.   Approval of Agreement – Skagit County Fire District #5
       F.   Street Closure Request – Mount Vernon School District
       G.   Project Acceptance – Trico Companies, LLC
       H.   Approval of Agreement #4929

                  Councilmember Hudson moved to approve Consent
                  Agenda Items A – H. Motion seconded by
                  Councilmember Tercero. Motion passed 6-0.

5. REPORTS

A.       Councilmember Comments
             Councilmember Oliver announced a Ward 2 Community Meeting
               from 6-8 p.m. on Tues, May 19 at Hillcrest Lodge.
             Councilmember Daman commended the City Wellness Committee
               and thanked Vanessa Echavez and Tara Small for their work
               organizing the blood drive today and encouraged Council to
               donate at the next event.

B.       Mayor’s Report
            Development Services has implemented an over-the-counter
               approval process to assist residents with permitting for small
               projects. Staff are available on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 2-
               4 pm to help our residents and ensure projects are built and
               installed the right way.


Mount Vernon City Council
May 13, 2026
Page 3 of 4

                 Skagit County homeowners and renters who suffered disaster-
                  related damage during the December 2025 flooding can apply to
                  the FEMA Individual Assistance Program. Applications are due on
                  June 10, 2026.

6. NEW BUSINESS

 A.      Approval of Ordinance – Interim Fee Waiver Program:
         Mr. Sexton requested approval of Ordinance 3939, establishing a
         temporary fee waiver for affordable housing. In January the City
         received a Connecting Housing to Infrastructure Program (CHIP) grant
         from the State of Washington in support of Community Action’s Kulshan
         View development. This is a temporary program to meet the
         requirements of grant, keep the Community Action project on track to
         break ground in June, and allow the City to revisit the program and
         discuss waivers further later this year.

                  Councilmember     Hudson   moved     to   approve
                  Ordinance 3939, authorizing an interim fee waiver
                  program. Motion seconded by Councilmember
                  Tercero. Motion passed 6-0

 B.      Approval of Resolution – Transportation Benefit District (TBD):
         Mr. Phillips requested approval of Resolution 1097, calling for a general
         election ballot proposition for the renewal of the 0.2% sales and use tax
         within the boundaries of the Mount Vernon Transportation Benefit
         District.

         The 0.2% TBD sales and use tax approved by voters in 2016 will expire
         on April 1, 2027. With Council approval a measure to renew the tax for
         an additional ten years will go on the November 3, 2026 ballot.

         As part of the process, the City will put out public notice seeking
         members to serve on committees both for and against the proposition.

         Residents are invited to visit the Public Works website to review TBD
         funded projects from 2017 to present.

                  Councilmember       Tercero   moved    to   approve
                  Resolution 1097 continuing the Transportation
                  Benefit District. Motion seconded by Councilmember
                  Hudson. Motion passed 6-0

7. ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at 7:39 p.m.


Mount Vernon City Council
May 13, 2026
Page 4 of 4

Submitted by: Kerri Grechishkin, Executive Assistant

Approved: May 27, 2026


                                                             CONSENT ITEM: B




                               City of Mount Vernon
                           City Council Meeting Minutes
                                   May 20, 2026
                   Police Court Campus, 1805 Continental Place

Present
Mayor Donovan
Councilmembers:     Beaton, Daman, Hudson, Oliver, Tercero, Vander Stoep,
                    West
Planning
Commissioners:      Burkhart, Carlson (6:03 p.m.) Hardt, Orr, Windler

Staff:              Development Services Director Sexton, City Attorney,
                    Rogerson, Principle Planner Lowell, Finance Director
                    Volesky, City Clerk Jensen


1. OPENING CEREMONIES
   A. Mayor Donovan called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
   B. Ms. Jensen called roll of Councilmembers and Commissioners

2. APPROVAL OF AGENDA

            The agenda was approved as submitted.

3. NEW BUSINESS

 A.      Draft Land Use Element Goals and Policies Discussion: FACET Project
         Manager Matt Covert explained that the Comprehensive Plan is required
         to be updated every ten years. The updates will accommodate growth
         over the next twenty years, addressing housing needs, and compliance
         with new state laws. New House Bills include: HB1220 (affordable
         housing), HB1096 (administrative process for lot splits), SB6026
         (prohibit excluding residential uses in commercial or mixed-use zones),
         and HB1198 (allowance of co-living housing).

         FACET staff has begun drafting land use, housing, economic
         development, and climate element goals, policies and vision statements,
         planning community outreach, creating a citizen advisory committee,
         and initiating a land capacity analysis.


Mount Vernon City Council
May 13, 2026
Page 2 of 2



         FACET Senior Planner Donna Keeler reviewed other tasks scheduled for
         2026: Launch the outreach platform Konveio, map updates, and
         development regulations updates.

         FACET Environmental Planner Rachel Henden, spoke about the online
         platform Konveio. This is a tool to provide information and receive
         feedback from the public.

         Ms. Keeler read the land use vision statement; this statement should
         guide the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan. The draft land
         use element goals and policies were reviewed and discussed. FACET
         staff will incorporate agreed upon updates.

 B.      Detailed Comprehensive Plan/Meeting Schedule: Ms. Lowell reviewed
         the draft task and meeting schedule for May – December, 2026. The
         pros and cons of sub-area planning were discussed.

 C.      Eaglemont Traffic Study Update: Steve spoke about previous traffic
         studies, and trip calculation. TSI is reevaluating and will provide an
         updated trip calculation report. Staff trip calculation estimates were
         reviewed. Staff and consultants will move forward with creating a Citizen
         Advisory Committee to study the Master Plan.

4. MISCELLANEOUS
    Mayor Donovan explained that the City is moving forward with an
     application to designate an area downtown an ‘Opportunity Zone’ and
     asked Council to sign a letter supporting the application. The
     opportunity zone will encourage economic vitality through tax
     incentives.

5. ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at 7:46 p.m.

Submitted by:         Becky Jensen, City Clerk

Approved: May 27, 2026


                                                                    CONSENT ITEM: E




MEETING DATE:           May 27, 2026

TO:                     Mayor Donovan and City Council

FROM:                   Adam Pearson, Special Projects Manager

SUBJECT:                CDBG SUBRECIPIENT AGREEMENT WITH COMMUNITY ACTION



RECOMMENDED ACTION:

Staff recommends that Council authorize the Mayor to enter into a subrecipient agreement with
Community Action of Skagit County for the 2025-2026 program year.


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:

The City of Mount Vernon has secured an on-going Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) from
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in the total amount of
$377,614.00 for the 2025-2026 program year. Consistent with the Council-approved CDBG Annual
Action Plan, the City has agreed to provide Community Action with $18,880.00 (approx. 5%) of CDBG
program funds to deliver public services to low and moderate income individuals.


APPLICABLE DEPARTMENTAL REVIEW:

Legal: ‫܆‬                       H.R.: ‫܆‬                   Fire: ‫܆‬           D.S.: ‫܆‬

Finance: ‫܆‬                     Police: ‫܆‬                 Parks: ‫܆‬          Library: ‫܆‬

I.T.: ‫܆‬



ATTACHMENTS:

      x   CDBG agreement with subrecipient Communiy Action
      x   CDBG subrecipient documentation


CITY OF MOUNT VERNON COMMUNITY ACTION OF SKAGIT COUNTY AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into by and between the City of Mount Vernon, a municipal
corporation under the laws of the State of Washington (hereinafter referred to as the City or Grantee) and
Community Action of Skagit County, a Washington nonprofit corporation (hereinafter referred to as
Provider or Subrecipient)

WITNESSES THAT:

WHEREAS, a significant number of Mount Vernon citizens are in need of social and health services, and
WHEREAS, the City has a legal right to participate in the care of its less fortunate residents, and

WHEREAS, the Provider is a nonprofit organization formed for the express purpose of providing social
services for the needy, and

WHEREAS, the City has secured an on-going Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) from the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, identified as CFDA 14.218, in the total
amount of $377,614.00 for program year 2025-26; and

WHEREAS, the City has agreed to provide the Provider with a percentage of the CDBG Program funds
in the amount of $18,880.00; to deliver public services to low and moderate income individuals; and

WHEREAS, the City and the Provider are desirous of entering into a contract to formalize their
relationship.

1. Services to be Provided by the Parties:

a. The Provider shall complete in a satisfactory and proper manner as determined by the City the
work activities described in the Scope of Work.

b. The City will provide such assistance and guidance as may be required to support the
objectives set forth in the Scope of Work and will provide funding for the services and activities
as set forth below.

2. Scope of Work:

a. Activities - The Provider will be responsible for administering a CDBG Year 2025-26 Public
Services program in a manner satisfactory to the Grantee and consistent with any standards
required as a condition of providing these funds. Such program will include the activity eligible
under the Community Development Block Grant program described in Exhibit A.

b. National Objectives - The subrecipient certifies that the activities carried out under this
agreement will meet CDBG National Objectives, as outlined below:

Activity: Homeless Housing activities meet the CDBG National Objective to principally benefit
low and very low-income persons. The activity meets the limited clientele criteria by exclusively
serving homeless persons who are presumed benefit by HUD. 100% of those served have
been assessed for need and screened to verify eligibility. Critical Needs/Referral activities meet
the CDBG National Objective to principally benefit low and very low-income persons. The
activity meets the limited clientele criteria by Subrecipient documentation of data showing the
size and annual income of the family of each person receiving benefit and that those served
are low and moderate income.

Subrecipient Agreement CASC 2025 1
5/8/2026


c. Activity Budgets

Activity budgets are outlined in Exhibit B “Proposed Project Budget” attached hereto and
incorporated herein and made a part hereof.

d. Levels of Accomplishment — Goals and Performance Measures

Activity goals are outlined in Exhibit A.

Estimated activity beneficiaries are outlined in Exhibit C “Project Beneficiaries Estimate”
attached hereto and incorporated herein and made a part hereof. Unduplicated number of
persons served and defined total units of service have been forecast by the Provider as
performance measures.

It is expected that client services and related City cost reimbursement will be on an even basis

throughout the budget year 2025-26, and that beneficiary reporting will show approximately
50% of clients served during each semi-annual period.

e. Staffing
Staff assigned to listed activities will be competent to perform assigned duties. Any changes in
the Key Personnel assigned or their general responsibilities under this project are subject to
notification to the Grantee.

f. Performance Monitoring

The grantee will monitor the performance of the Subrecipient against goals and performance
standards as stated above, on an annual basis. Substandard performance as determined by
the Grantee will constitute non-compliance with this Agreement. If action to correct such
substandard performance is not taken by the subrecipient within a reasonable period of time
after being notified by the Grantee, contract suspension or termination procedures will be
initiated.

g. Compliance with Federal Regulations as stated herein and amended or revised hereafter.
(See attached Addendum 1. Policy Requirements attached hereto).

Administration of program and activities are subject to Federal Housing and Urban
Development regulations.

The Subrecipient agrees to comply with the requirements of Title 24 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, Part 570 (the U.S. Housing and Urban Development regulations
concerning Community Development Block Grants (CDBG)) including subpart K of these
regulations, except that (1) the Subrecipient does not assume the recipient's
environmental responsibilities described in 24 CFR 570.604 and (2) the Subrecipient
does not assume the recipient's responsibility for initiating the review process under the
provisions of 24 CFR 52. The Subrecipient also agrees to comply with all other
applicable Federal, state and local laws, regulations, and policies governing the funds
provided under this contract. The Subrecipient further agrees to utilize funds available
under this Agreement to supplement rather than supplant funds otherwise available.

3. Time of Performance:

All activities described under Scope of Work shall be conducted over the course of the current budget

Subrecipient Agreement CASC 2025 2
5/8/2026


year, July 1, 2025, through June 30, 2026.
Consideration:

i>

The City shall contribute $18,880 to the Provider to accomplish the scope of work as detailed in
Section 2.

jn

Administration:

The Subrecipient shail appoint a liaison who shall be responsible for overall administration of the
CDBG funded project/activities and coordination with the Grantee. The Subrecipient shall also
designate one or more representatives who shall be authorized to sign invoices. The names of the
liaison and representatives shall be specified by letter to the Grantee.

|>

Reimbursement

a. The City of Mount Vernon shall reimburse the Subrecipient only for activities specified in
Attached Exhibits A, and only for incurred cost. Reimbursement shall be based on a properly
executed invoice, submitted and signed by the Subrecipient’s authorized representative. The
invoice shall include substantiating documentation for all expenses. Drawdowns for the
payment of eligible expenses shall be made against the line-item budgets specified in
Exhibits B, and in accordance with performance.

b. Payments may be contingent upon certification of the Subrecipient’s financial management
system in accordance with the standards specified in 24 CFR Part 570 and 2 CFR 200.

c. The City will make timely payments to the Subrecipient after said reimbursement request is
received and approved by City personnel.

d. The Subrecipient shall submit a monthly activity report providing CDBG Beneficiary and
Outcomes Report to the City with a monthly request for reimbursement form.
Reimbursements will be withheld if reports are missing or incomplete.

IN

Relationship:

The City and Provider intend that an independent contractual relationship be created by this contract.
Provider is not considered to be an employee of the City for any purpose, and neither the Provider
nor any employee of the Provider shall be entitled to any of the benefits the City provides for the
City’s employees, including but not limited to health insurance, sick or annual leave, or worker's
compensation. Provider specifically represents and stipulates that the Provider is engaged in the
business of providing the services set forth in this contract, whether or not for profit, and that Provider
is fully registered and legally authorized to conduct such business, and pays all necessary taxes and
assessments levied against such business.

8. Suspension and Termination:

a. If the Provider fails to comply with the terms and conditions of this contract, the City may
pursue such remedies as are legally available, including, but not limited to, the suspension or
termination of this contract.

b. In accordance with 2 CFR 200, the Grantee may suspend or terminate this Agreement if the
Subrecipient materially fails to comply with any terms of this Agreement, which include (but are
not limited to) the following:

Subrecipient Agreement CASC 2025 3
5/8/2026


1. Failure to comply with any of the rules, regulations or provisions referred to herein, or such
statutes, regulations, executive orders, and HUD guidelines, policies or directives as may
become applicable at any time;

2. Failure, for any reason, of the Subrecipient to fulfill in a timely and proper manner its
obligations under this Agreement;

3. Ineffective or improper use of funds provided under this Agreement; or

4. Submission by the Subrecipient to the Grantee reports that are incorrect or incomplete in any
material respect.

c. In accordance with 2 CFR 200, this Agreement may also be terminated for convenience by either
the Grantee or the Subrecipient, in whole or in part, by setting forth the reasons for such
termination, the effective date, and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated.
However, if in the case of a partial termination, the Grantee determines that the remaining portion
of the award will not accomplish the purpose for which the award was made, the Grantee may
terminate the award in its entirety.

g. Changes, Amendments, Modifications:

The City may, from time to time, require changes or modifications in the Scope of Work to be
performed here-under. Such changes, including any decrease or increase in the amount of
compensation therefore, which are mutually agreed upon by the City and the Provider shall be
incorporated in written amendments to this contract.

10. Assignability:

The Provider shall not assign any interest on this contract and shall not transfer any interest on the
contract (whether by assignment or novation), without prior written consent of the City.

11. Reports and Information:

See Section 6. The Provider, at such time as and in such form as the City may require, shall furnish
the City such periodic reports and information as it may request pertaining to the work or services
undertaken pursuant to this contract, the costs and obligations incurred or to be incurred in
connection therewith, and any other matters covered by this contract.

12. Compliance with Local Laws:
The Provider shall comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, and codes of the state and local
government and the Provider shall hold and save the City harmless with respect to any damages
arising from any tort done in performing any of the work embraced by this contract.

13. Audits and Inspections:

The City or their delegates shall have the right to review and monitor the financial and other
components of the work and services provided and undertaken as part of the contract by whatever legal
and reasonable means are deemed expedient by the City. All Subrecipient records with respect to any
matters covered by this Agreement shall be made available to the Grantee, grantor agency, and the
Comptroller General of the United States or any of their authorized representatives, at any time during
normal business hours, as often as deemed necessary, to audit, examine, and make excerpts or
transcripts of all relevant data. Any deficiencies noted in audit reports must be fully cleared by the
Subrecipient within 30 days after receipt by the Subrecipient. Failure of the Subrecipient to comply with

Subrecipient Agreement CASC 2025 4
5/8/2026


the above audit requirements will constitute a violation of this contract and may result in the withholding
of future payments. The Subrecipient hereby agrees to have an annual agency audit with current
Grantee policy concerning subrecipient audits and 2 CFR 200.

14. Hold Harmless:

The Provider agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the City, its appointed and elective officers and
employees, from and against all loss and expense, including attorney’s fees and costs by reason of
any and all claims and demands upon the City, its elected and appointed officers and employees
from damages sustained by any person or persons, arising out of or in consequence of the Provider's
and its agents’ negligent performance of work associated with this agreement.

15. Workers’ Compensation:

The Subrecipient shall provide Workers’ Compensation Insurance coverage for all of its employees
involved in the performance of this Agreement.

16. Insurance & Bonding:

The Subrecipient shall carry sufficient insurance coverage to protect contract assets from loss due
to theft, fraud and/or undue physical damage. The Subrecipient shall comply with the bonding and
insurance requirements of 2 CFR 200, Bonding and Insurance.

17. Grantee Recognition:

The Subrecipient shall insure recognition of the role of the Grantee in providing services through this
Agreement. Alll activities, facilities and items utilized pursuant to this Agreement shall be prominently
labeled as to funding source. In addition, the Subrecipient will include a reference to the support
provided herein in all publications made possible with funds made available under this Agreement.

18. Administrative Requirements:

a. Financial Management

1. Accounting Standards — The Subrecipient agrees to comply with 2 CFR 200 and agrees to
adhere to the accounting principles and procedures required therein, utilize adequate
internal controls, and maintain necessary source documentation for all costs incurred.

2. Cost Principles — The Subrecipient shall administer its program in conformance with 2
CFR 200 as applicable. These principles shall be applied for all costs incurred whether
charged on a direct or indirect basis.

b. Documentation and Record Keeping

1. Records to be Maintained — The Subrecipient shall maintain all records required by the
Federal regulations specified in 24 CFR 570.506, that are pertinent to the activities to be
funded under this Agreement. Such records shall include but not be limited to:

« Records providing a full description of each activity undertaken:

« Records demonstrating that_each activity undertaken meets one of the National
Objectives of the CDBG program:

« Records required to determine the eligibility of activities:

Subrecipient Agreement CASC 2025 5
5/8/2026


e Records required to document the acquisition, improvement, use or disposition of real
property acquired or improved with CDBG assistance:

e Financial records are required by 24 CFR 570.502, and 2 CFR 200: and

« Other records necessary to document compliance with Subpart K of 24 CFR 570.

2. Retention — The Subrecipient shall retail all financial records, supporting documents,
statistical records, and all other records pertinent to the Agreement for a period of four (4)
years. The retention period begins on the date of the submission of the Grantee’s annual
performance and evaluation report to HUD in which the activities assisted under the
Agreement are reported on for the final time. Notwithstanding the above, if there is litigation,
claims, audits, negotiations, or other actions that involve any of the records cited and that
have started before the expiration of the four-year period, then such records must be
retained until completion of the actions and resolution of all issues, or the expiration of the
four-year period, whichever occurs later.

3. Client Data - The Subrecipient shall maintain client data demonstrating client eligibility for
services provided. Such data shall include, but not be limited to, client name, address,
income level or other basis for deter- mining eligibility, and description of service provided.
Such information shall be made available to Grantee monitors or their designee for review
upon request.

4. Disclosure — The Subrecipient understands that client information collected under this
contract is private and the use or disclosure of such information, when not directly connected
with the administration of the Grantee’s or Subrecipient’s responsibilities with respect to
services provided under this contract, is prohibited by the [insert applicable State of Federal
law] unless written consent is obtained from such person receiving service and, in the case
of a minor, that of a responsible parent/guardian.

5. Close-outs - The Subrecipient’s obligation to the Grantee shall not end until all close-out
requirements are completed. Activities during this close-out period shall include, but are not
limited to: making final payments, disposing of program assets (including the return of all
unused materials, equipment, unspent cash advances, program income balances, and
accounts receivable to the Grantee), and determining the custodianship of records.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms of this Agreement shall remain in effect during any
period that the Subrecipient has control over CDBG funds, including program income.

c. Reporting and Payment Procedures

1. Program Income — The subrecipient shall report monthly all program income (as defined
at 24 CFR 570.500(a)) generated by activities carried out with CDBG funds made available
under this contract. The use of program income by the Subrecipient shall comply with the
requirements set forth at 24 CFR 570.504. By way of further limitations, the Subrecipient
may use such income during the contract period for activities permitted under this contract
and shall reduce requests for additional funds by the amount of any such program income
balances on hand. All unexpended program income shall be returned to the Grantee at the
end of the contract period. Any interest earned on cash advances from the U.S. Treasury
and from funds held in a revolving fund accountis not program income and shall be remitted
promptly to the Grantee.

Subrecipient Agreement CASC 2025 6
5/8/2026


2. Indirect Costs — If indirect costs are charged, the Subrecipient will development an indirect
cost allocation plan determining the appropriate Subrecipient’s share of administrative
costs and shall submit such plan to the Grantee for approval, in a form specified by the
Grantee.

3. Payment Procedures - The Grantee will pay to the Subrecipient funds available under this
Agreement based upon information submitted by the Subrecipient and consistent with any
approved budget and Grantee policy concerning payments. With the exception of certain
advances, payments will be made for eligible expenses actually incurred by the
Subrecipient, and not to exceed actual cash requirements. Payments will be adjusted by the
Grantee in accordance with advance fund and program income balances available in
Subrecipient accounts. In addition, the Grantee reserves the right to liquidate funds available
under this contract for costs incurred by the Grantee on behalf of the Subrecipient.

d. Procurement

1. Compliance — The Subrecipient shall comply with current Grantee policy concerning the
purchase of equipment and shall maintain inventory records of all non-expendable personal
property as defined by such policy as may be procured with funds provided herein. All
program assets (unexpended program income, property, equipment, etc.) shall revert to the
Grantee upon termination of this Agreement.

2. OMB Standards — Unless specified otherwise within this agreement, the Subrecipient shall
at a minimum procure all materials, property, or services in accordance with the
requirements of 2 CFR 200.

3. Jravel— The Subrecipient shall obtain written approval from the Grantee for any travel costs
for travel outside the metropolitan area with funds provided under this Agreement.

e. Use and Reversion of Assets

The use and disposition of real property and equipment under this Agreement shall be in
compliance with the requirements of 2 CFR 200 and 24 CFR 570.502, 570.503, and
570.504, as applicable, which include but are not limited to the following:

1. The Subrecipient shall transfer to the Grantee any CDBG funds on hand and any
accounts receivable attributable to the use of funds under this Agreement at the
time of expiration, cancellation, or termination.

2. Real property under the Subrecipient’s control that was acquired or improved, in
whole or in part, with funds under this Agreement in excess of $25,000 shall be
used to meet one of the CDBG National Objectives pursuant to 24 CFR 570.208
until five (5) years after expiration of this Agreement [or such longer period of time
as the Grantee deems appropriate]. If the Subrecipient fails to use CDBG-assisted
real property in a manner that meets a CDBG National Objective for the prescribed
period of time, the Subrecipient shall pay the Grantee an amount equal to the current
fair market value of the property less any portion of the value attributable to
expenditures of non-CDBG funds for acquisition of, or improvement to, the property.
Such payment shall constitute program income to the Grantee. The Subrecipient
may retain real property acquired or improved under this Agreement after the
expiration of the five-year period [or such longer period of time as the Grantee deems
appropriate].

Subrecipient Agreement CASC 2025 7
5/8/2026



3. In all cases in which equipment acquired, in whole or in part, with funds under this
Agreement is sold, the proceeds shall be program income (prorated to reflect the
extent to that funds received under this Agreement were used to acquire the
equipment). Equipment not needed by the Subrecipient for activities under this
Agreement shall be (a) transferred to the Grantee for the CDBG program or (b)
retained after compensating the Grantee [an amount equal to the current fair market
value of the equipment less the percentage of non-CDBG funds used to acquire the
equipment].

19. Relocation, Real Property Acquisition and one-for one Housing Replacement

The Subrecipient agrees to comply with (a) the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real
Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (URA), and implementing regulations
at 49 CFR 24 and 24 CFR 570.606(b); (b) the requirements of 24 CFR 570.606(c) governing
the Residential Anti-displacement and Relocation Assistance Plan under section 104(d) of
the HCD Act; and (c) the requirements in 24 CFR 570.606(d) governing optional relocation
policies. [The Grantee may preempt the optional policies.] The Subrecipient shall provide
relocation assistance to displaced persons as defined by 24 CFR 570.606(b)(2) that are
displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, demolition, or conversion for a
CDBG-assisted project. The Subrecipient also agrees to comply with applicable Grantee
ordinances, resolutions, and policies concerning the displacement of persons from their
residences.

20. Personnel & Participant Conditions

a. Civil Rights

1. Compliance - The Subrecipient agrees to comply with ffill in local and state civil rights
ordinances here] and with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as amended, Title VIII of
the Civil Rights Act of 1968 as amended, Section 104(b)and Section 109 of Title | of the
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 as amended, Section 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Age
Discrimination Act of 1975, Executive Order 11063, and Executive Order 11246 as amended
by Executive Orders 11375, 11478, 12107 and 12086.

2. Nondiscrimination -The Subrecipient agrees to comply with the non-discrimination in
employment and contracting opportunities laws, regulations, and executive orders
referenced in 24 CFR 1570.607, as revised by Executive Order 13279. The applicable non-
discrimination provisions in Section 109 of the HCDA are still applicable.

3. Land Covenants

This contract is subject to the requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (P. L.
88-352) and 24 CFR 570.601 and 570.602. In regard to the sale, lease, or other transfer of
land acquired, cleared, or improved with assistance provided under this contract, the
Subrecipient shall cause or require a covenant running with the land to be inserted in the
deed or lease for such transfer, prohibiting discrimination as herein defined, in the sale,
lease or rental, or in the use or occupancy of such land, or in any improvements erected or
to be erected thereon, providing that the Grantee and the United States are beneficiaries of
and entitled to enforce such covenants. The Subrecipient, in undertaking its obligation to
carry out the program assisted hereunder, agrees to take such measures as are necessary
to enforce such covenant, and will not itself so discriminate.

Subrecipient Agreement CASC 2025 8
5/8/2026


4. Section 504

The Subrecipient agrees to comply with all Federal regulations issued pursuant to
compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), which
prohibits discrimination against individuals with disabilities or handicaps in any Federally
assisted program. The Grantee shall provide the Subrecipient with any guidelines necessary
for compliance with that portion of the regulations in force during the term of this Agreement.

b. Affirmative Action

1. The Subrecipient agrees that it shall be committed to carry out their programs provided in
President's Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1966.

2. Women and Minority Owned Businesses (VW/MBE) — The Subrecipient will use its best
efforts to afford small businesses, minority business enterprises, and women’s business
enterprises the maximum practicable opportunity to participate in the performance of
this contract. As used in this contract, the terms “small business” means a business that
meets the criteria set forth in section 3(a) of the Small Business Act, as amended (15
U.S.C. 632), and “minority and women’s business enterprise” means a business at
least fifty-one (51) percent owned and controlled by minority group members or
women. For the purpose of this definition, “minority group members” are Afro-
Americans, Spanish-speaking, Spanish surnamed or Spanish-heritage Americans,
Asian-Americans, and American Indians. The Subrecipient may rely on written
representations by businesses regarding their status as minority and female business
enterprises in lieu of an independent investigation.

3. Access to Records - The Subrecipient shall furnish and cause each of its own subrecipients or
subcontractors to furnish all information and reports required hereunder and will permit access
to its books, records and accounts by the Grantee, HUD or its agent, or other authorized
Federal officials for purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance with the rules,
regulations, and provisions stated herein.

4. Notifications - The Subrecipient will send to each labor union or representative of workers with
which it has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract or understanding, a notice, to
be provided by the agency contracting officer, advising the labor union or worker's
representative of the Subrecipient’s commitments hereunder, and shall post copies of the
notice in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment.

5. Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EE)/AA) Statements — The
Subrecipient will, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees, place by or on behalf
of the Subrecipient, state that it is an Equal Opportunity or Affirmative Action employer.

6. Subcontract Provisions —- The Subrecipient will include the provisions of Civil Rights, and
Affirmative Action, in every subcontract or purchase order, specifically or by reference, so
that such provisions will be binding upon each of its own subrecipients or subcontractors.

c. Employment Restrictions

1. Prohibited Activity - The Subrecipient is prohibited from using funds provided herein
or personnel employed in the administration of the program for political activities;
inherently religious activities; lobbying; political patronage; and nepotism activities.

Subrecipient Agreement CASC 2025 9
5/8/2026


2. Labor Standards -The Subrecipient agrees to comply with the requirements of the
Secretary of Labor in accordance with the Davis-Bacon Act as amended, the provisions
of Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327 et seq.) and all other
applicable Federal, state, and local laws and regulations pertaining to labor standards
insofar as those acts apply to the performance of this Agreement. The Subrecipient
agrees to comply with the Copeland Anti-Kick Back Act (18 U.S.C. 874 et seq.) and its
implementing regulations of the U.S. Department of Labor at 29 CFR 5. The Subrecipient
shall maintain documentation that demonstrates compliance with hour and wage
requirements of this part. Such documentation shall be made available to the Grantee
for review upon request.

The Subrecipient agrees that, except with respect to the rehabilitation or
construction of residential property containing less than eight (8) units, all
contractors engaged under contracts in excess of $2,000.00 for construction,
renovation, or repair work financed in whole or in part with assistance pro- vided under
this contract, shall comply with Federal requirements adopted by the Grantee
pertaining to such contracts and with the applicable requirements of the regulations of
the Department of Labor, under 29 CFR 1, 3, 5 and 7 governing the payment of
wages and ratio of apprentices and trainees to journey workers; provided that, if
wage rates higher than those required under the regulations are imposed by state
or local law, nothing hereunder is intended to relieve the Subrecipient of its
obligation, if any, to require payment of the higher wage. The Subrecipient shall cause
or require to be inserted in full, in all such contracts subject to such regulations,
provisions meeting the requirements of this paragraph.

3. “Section 3” Clause

a. Compliance - Compliance with the provisions of Section 3 of the HUD Act of
1968, as amended, and as implemented by the regulations set forth in 24 CFR
75, and all applicable rules and orders issued hereunder prior to the execution
of this contract shall be a condition of the Federal financial assistance provided
under this contract and binding upon the Grantee, the Subrecipient and any of the
Subrecipient’s subrecipients and subcontractors. Failure to fulfill these
requirements shall subject the Grantee, the Subrecipient, and any of the
Subrecipient’s sub- recipients and subcontractors, their successors and assigns,
to those sanctions specified by the Agreement through which Federal assistance
is provided. The Subrecipient certifies and agrees that no contractual or other
disability exists that would prevent compliance with these requirements.

The Subrecipient further agrees to comply with these “Section 3” requirements and
to include the following language in all subcontracts executed under this Agreement:

“The work to be performed under this Agreement is a project assisted under a
program providing direct Federal financial assistance from HUD and is subject to
the requirements of Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968,
as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701). Section 3 requires that to the greatest extent
feasible opportunities for training and employment be given to low- and very low-
income residents of the project area, and that contracts for work in connection with
the project be awarded to business concerns that provide economic opportunities
for low- and very low-income persons residing in the metropolitan area in which the
project is located.”

The Subrecipient further agrees to ensure that opportunities for training and

Subrecipient Agreement CASC 2025 10
5/8/2026


employment arising in connection with a housing rehabilitation (including
reduction and abatement of lead-based paint hazards), housing construction, or
other public construction project are given to low- and very low-income persons
residing within the metropolitan area in which the CDBG-funded project is located;
where feasible, priority should be given to low- and very low-income persons within
the service area of the project or the neighborhood in which the project is located,
and to low- and very low-income participants in other HUD programs; and award
contracts for work undertaken in connection with a housing rehabilitation (including
reduction and abatement of lead-based paint hazards), housing construction, or
other public construction project to business concerns that provide economic
opportunities for low- and very low-income persons residing within the
metropolitan area in which the CDBG-funded project is located; where feasible,
priority should be given to business concerns that provide economic opportunities
to low- and very low-income residents within the service area or the neighborhood
in which the project is located, and to low- and very low-income participants in other
HUD programs.

The Subrecipient certifies and agrees that no contractual or other legal incapacity
exists that would prevent compliance with these requirements.

I=

Notifications

The Subrecipient agrees to send to each labor organization or representative of
workers with which it has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract or
understanding, if any, a notice advising said labor organization or worker’s
representative of its commitments under this Section 3 clause and shall post
copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants
for employment or training.

Ie

Subcontracts

The Subrecipient will include this Section 3 clause in every subcontract and will take
appropriate action pursuant to the subcontract upon a finding that the subcontractor is in
violation of regulations issued by the grantor agency. The Subrecipient will not subcontract
with any entity where it has notice or knowledge that the latter has been found in violation
of regulations under 24 CFR 75 and will not let any subcontract unless the entity has first
provided it with a preliminary statement of ability to comply with the requirements of these
regulations.

4. Conduct
a. Assignability

The Subrecipient shall not assign or transfer any interest in this Agreement without the prior
written consent of the Grantee thereto; provided, however, that claims for money due or to
become due to the Subrecipient from the Grantee under this contract may be assigned to
a bank, trust company, or other financial institution without such approval. Notice of any
such assignment or transfer shall be furnished promptly to the Grantee.

b. Subcontracts

1. Approvals

The Subrecipient shall not enter into any subcontracts with any agency or individual in

Subrecipient Agreement CASC 2025 11
5/8/2026





























































                                                                    CONSENT ITEM: F




MEETING DATE: May 27, 2026
SUBJECT:                Project Acceptance Mount Vernon Fire Station 2, Project
                        2023-ITB-008
PRESENTER:              Bryan Harris

RECOMMENDED ACTION:
Motion

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:
The City of Mount Vernon awarded a public works contract to Trico Companies LLC of Burlington,
Washington on August 9, 2023, in the amount of $5,903,934.42.

This project consisted of construction and renovation of Fire Station 2 following a needs
assessment which identified necessary improvements to the fire station.

The work for this project has been completed in accordance with the contract documents,
including project plans and specifications.

The final adjusted contract amount was $7,515,694.39.


APPLICABLE DEPARTMENTAL REVIEW
Fire

ATTACHMENTS:
1.  Council Memo for project acceptance MVFD Sta.2


DATE:           May 27, 2026

TO:             Mayor Donovan and City Council

FROM:           Rebecca Lowell, Development Services

SUBJECT:        CLOSED RECORD PUBLIC HEARING, PERMIT APPROVALS, NEW VETERANS AFFAIRS (VA)
                CLINIC

RECOMMENDED ACTION:
Staff recommends Council hold a closed record public hearing and approve the accompanying
Resolution approving with conditions the Transportation Concurrency and Site Plan Permits for a new
VA Clinic.

INTRODUCTION/BACKGROUND:
Proposed is a new outpatient medical clinic proposed to be one-story, ±26,723 square feet, with 120
parking spaces. Site development also includes associated lighting, landscaping, trash enclosure, and
other accessory improvements.

This project results in more than 75 PM peak hour traffic trips being generated; and as such, this permit
is required to be processed as a Type IV permit with the Hearing Examiner making a recommendation to
the City Council who will make a final decision on the permit [MVMC 14.10.090(D)]. On January 31,
2022 the Hearing Examiner (Hex) held an open record public hearing and on February 15, 2022 the Hex
rendered a recommendation that is attached for Council’s consideration.

The project site is addressed as 1501 Continental Place comprised of 3 parcel numbers (P121640,
P121637, and P121636) and is located north of Roosevelt Ave between Leigh Way and Continental Place
(west to east respectively). Following is a vicinity map identifying the extent of the proposed project.


FINDINGS/CONCLUSIONS:
The developer has completed the procedural requirements found in MVMC Chapter 14.05 for Type IV
Permits; and as conditioned, will comply with the City’s concurrency and site plan requirements.

RECOMMENDATION:
Council move to approve the accompanying Resolution.

ATTACHED:
   • Proposed Resolution that contains
          o Hearing Examiner’s Recommendation
          o Staff Report and its associated Exhibits
          o Notices and reports from the SEPA process


                                       RESOLUTION NO. 1099

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON, WASHINGTON, SITTING IN QUASI
JUDICIAL REVIEW, MAKING FINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW IN
CONNECTION TO THE TRAFFIC CONCURRENCY AND SITE PLAN REVIEW FOR A NEW
VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL CENTER ON CONTINENTAL PLACE, CITY FILE
NUMBERS: PLAN25-0136 AND ENGR24-0386

     WHEREAS, on March 28, 2025 VA Development, LLC (Applicant) submitted applications for
     traffic concurrency and site plan permits (hereinafter subject permits) with a State
     Environmental Policy Act (SEPA) checklist to complete the SEPA process. These application
     materials were determined to be technically complete on June 10, 2025 following two notices of
     incompleteness; and

     WHEREAS, the proposed project is expected to generate 102 new PM peak hour traffic trips;
     and as such, Mount Vernon Municipal Code 14.10.090(D) requires a Type IV (open record
     hearing before the Hearing Examiner with a closed record hearing before the City Council for
     the final decision) traffic concurrency permit be processed by the City; and

     WHEREAS, the proposed project consists of a one-story, 26,723 s.f. medical office building
     for outpatient medical services, 120 off-street parking spaces, landscaping, signage, and
     installation of new site infrastructure (parking lot, drive lanes, utilities, et cetera); and

     WHEREAS, a Notice of Application (NOA) and Proposed Optional Mitigated Determination
     of Non-Significance (MDNS) under SEPA was issued on June 13, 2025. The NOA and
     Proposed MDNS was re-noticed on January 28, 2026 because the Applicant added new property
     to the project proposal. Following the NOA and proposed MDNS comment period a final
     MDNS was issued for the project on March 3, 2026. No SEPA appeals were received by the
     City; and

     WHEREAS, on April 23, 2026, an open record public hearing was conducted before the Mount
     Vernon Hearing Examiner and on May 8, 2026, the Hearing Examiner issued her
     recommendation of approval with conditions for the proposed development; and

     WHEREAS, on May 27, 2026, a closed record public hearing was conducted before the Mount
     Vernon City Council, sitting in quasi judicial review, on the subject permits; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MOUNT
VERNON, WASHINGTON, AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION ONE. The City Council does hereby adopt the above listed recitals as set forth fully herein.

SECTION TWO. Accompanying this Resolution is a copy of the below listed items:

    1. The Hearing Examiner recommendation, labeled as Exhibit A, in the matter of the subject
       permits.

    2. The Staff Report for the subject permits prepared by staff from the City’s Development Services
       Department, labeled as Exhibit B.




Resolution 1099
Page 1


    3. The final SEPA determination and its associated Staff Report prepared by the City’s SEPA
       official, labeled as Exhibit C.

SECTION THREE. The City Council does hereby adopt the findings of fact and conclusions of law
found in the Hearing Examiner’s recommendation accompanying this Resolution identified as Exhibit A.

SECTION FOUR. DECISION. Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law outlined in the
recommendation from City’s Hearing Examiner (attached as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by
reference), the information found in the Staff Report from the Development Services Department
(attached as Exhibit B and incorporated herein by reference), the SEPA determination from the
Development Services Department (attached as Exhibit C and incorporated herein by reference), and
based on the recitals of this Resolution (set forth above) the City Council of Mount Vernon approves,
with conditions, the subject permits for the development of a new medical office building and associated
improvements for the Veterans Affairs, City File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 and ENGR24-0386

This approval shall be made subject to compliance with the standards of the Mount Vernon Municipal
Code and the below listed conditions:

    1. All trees located within 10 feet of a utility main, sidewalk, drive lane, walkway, or other similar
       feature shall have a root barrier installed. Public (City and PUD #1) sanitary and storm sewers
       and water lines shall not be installed within approximately five feet of where trees will be
       planted.
    2. The Applicant shall complete a lot aggregation through the Boundary Line Adjustment process
       for all affected lots within the Applicant’s ownership.
    3. The Applicant shall submit a revised Site Plan prior to issuance of Building Permits. The revised
       Site Plan shall be the basis for Building Permit review and shall incorporate the conditions of
       approval of this Recommendation as well as the mitigation measures from the March 3, 2026
       MDNS (Ex. 4c), the recommendations of the Transportation Concurrency Report (Ex. 10), the
       recommendations of the Preliminary Drainage Report (Ex. 7), and the requirements of Section F
       Notes to the Applicant and Parties of Record from the Staff Report (Ex. 12). The exhibit
       numbers referenced in this condition are exhibits to the Staff Report accompanying this
       Resolution identified as Exhibit B.
    4. All subsequent development shall comply with the applicable Building Codes, Fire Codes, and
       Engineering standards in effect at the time of Building Permit application. The approved site plan
       application does not authorize any construction activities required to construct and/or install the
       proposed project. The Applicant shall apply for and receive approval of all additional applicable
       permits including the Building Permit, Fill and Grade Permit, Right of Way permit, etc.
    5. The Applicant shall apply for a Floodplain Development Permit if necessary. All development
       shall comply with Floodplain regulations (MVMC 15.36.285) including obtaining approval for
       development with the US Army Corp of Engineers, when applicable.

SECTION FIVE. City staff is hereby directed to complete preparation of the final Resolution, including
correction of any typographical or editorial edits.

SECTION SIX. For the purposes of a commencement of review of the City’s decision, this shall
constitute the City’s written decision as set forth in RCW 36.70C.040(4)(a) and shall be considered
issued: 1) three days after a written decision is mailed by the City jurisdiction or, if not mailed, 2) the date
on which the City provides notice that a written decision is publicly available.


Resolution 1099
Page 2


PASSED by the City Council of the City of Mount Vernon this 27th day of May, 2026


Signed in authentication of its passage this ______ day of ____________, 2026.




                                                               ______________________________
                                                                         Becky Jensen, City Clerk




                                                                  ______________________________
                                                                              Peter Donovan, Mayor

Approved as to form:




___________________________________
Kevin Rogerson, City Attorney




Resolution 1099
Page 3


                               EXHIBIT A
                  HEARING EXAMINER’S RECOMMENDATION




Resolution 1099
Page 4


 1

 2

 3

 4       BEFORE THE HEARING EXAMINER FOR THE CITY OF
                       MOUNT VERNON
 5
                                Emily Terrell, Hearing Examiner
 6

 7    RE: VA Clinic
 8
            Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency      FINDINGS OF FACT,
 9                                               CONCLUSIONS OF LAW AND
           PLAN25-0136                           DECISION
10         ENGR24-0386
11

12                                     INTRODUCTION

13   The Applicant requests approval of a site plan and traffic concurrency to construct a
     26,723sf, 23-foot-tall medical building for outpatient medical services operated by the
14   Veterans Association with 120 vehicle parking stalls and landscape improvements. The
     project is located at 1501 Continental Place. The examiner recommends the City
15
     Council approve the site plan and traffic concurrency review for the project subject to
16   recommended conditions.

17   The Applicant was required by City Code to submit its concurrency request to the City
     Council because its project will generate more than 75 peak hour trips. The proposed
18   new VA Clinic will generate 102 new weekday PM peak hour trips. The City’s
     concurrency ordinance, Chapter 14.10 MVMC, imposes seven concurrency standards,
19
     specifically (1) road capacity level of service (“LOS”), (2) pedestrian LOS, (3) street
20   design LOS, (4) on-site LOS, (5) nonmotorized LOS, (6) pavement condition LOS and
     (7) transit LOS. A traffic consultant prepared a traffic report, Ex. 10, that assessed each
21   category of LOS and found all LOS standards satisfied. Based upon the traffic report,
     the City’s Engineering Manager has recommended approval with conditions that are
22   all adopted by this Recommendation.
23
                                      ORAL TESTIMONY
24
     A computer-generated transcript has been prepared of the appeal hearing to provide an
25   overview of the hearing testimony. The transcript is provided for informational
     purposes only as Appendix A. Since the transcript is computer generated, it is not 100%
     accurate, but does provide a useful indication of what testimony was presented during
     the hearing.



     Site Plan and Transportation Concurrency Recommendation                     Page | 1


 1                                       EXHIBITS
 2
     The Examiner admitted Exhibits 1-11 of the Staff Report during the April 23, 2026
 3   hearing. The April 16, 2026 Staff Report was admitted as Exhibit 12. A Boundary Line
     Adjustment Deed was admitted as Exhibit 13.
 4

 5                                 FINDINGS OF FACT
     Procedural:
 6
     1. Applicant. The Applicant is VA Development, LLC represented by Mark Biagotti,
 7   President of SDA Inc, 5655 S. Yosemite Street, Suite 460, Greenwood Village, CO,
     80111.
 8

 9   2. Hearing. A hearing for the site plan and transportation concurrency application was
     held via MS Teams on April 23, 2026.
10
     Substantive:
11

12   3. Site/Proposal Description. The Applicant requests approval of a site plan and traffic
     concurrency for a project located at 1501 Continental Place. The project will construct
13   a 26,723sf, 23-foot-tall medical building for outpatient medical services operated by
     the Veterans Association with 120 vehicle parking stalls and landscape improvements.
14   The project site is 2.95 acres and is currently undeveloped except for two existing
     detention ponds located at the northwest corner.
15

16   The site will be accessed from Roosevelt Avenue and Continental Place. The project is
     estimated to generate 102 new weekday PM Peak Hour trips. A private drainage
17   easement, detention pond, storm pond, and associated easements currently encumber
     the northern and western portions of parcel P121637 (Ex. 6).
18
     4. Characteristics of the Area. The project is surrounded by a mix of uses. To the north
19   is commercial/medical office uses, including multi-story buildings accessed from
20   Continental Plance and E. College Way. There are vacant lots to the Northwest and
     Northeast. To the east are additional commercial/medical office uses with low-rise
21   buildings. This area transitions towards larger retail/commercial uses near the College
     Way Corridor. Commercial development is also located to the south which includes
22   office/medical buildings. To the south of the development is a small forest stand. To
     the west are commercial and light manufacturing uses characterized by low-rise
23
     buildings.
24
     5. Adverse Impacts. There are no significant adverse impacts associated with the
25   proposal. A SEPA MDNS was issued on March 3, 2026 which was not appealed.
     Pertinent impacts are individually addressed below.




     Site Plan and Transportation Concurrency Recommendation                  Page | 2


     A. Critical Areas and Floodplain. The site is located within the regulated floodplain in
 1      FEMA floodplain Zone A21 of the Skagit River and its tributaries. According to
        the technical memorandum from West Consultants, the proposed development will
 2
        not increase the Base Flood Elevation or the 1% Annual Exceedance Probability
 3      (100-year) flood (Ex. 9) which complies with the study requirements of MVMC
        15.36.285. A recommended condition of approval will require the development to
 4      comply with applicable floodplain regulations and apply for a Floodplain
        Development Permit, if required. No other critical areas or shorelines or buffers
 5      impact the project site (Ex. 3 and 6).
 6
     B. Public Facilities. As conditioned, the project will have adequate access to public
 7      facilities. The staff report does not discuss the proposed development with respect
        to water, sewer, and stormwater as this review has been deferred to later permit
 8      processes. The Applicant provided a copy of the Binding Site Plan (Ex. 11) that
        created the lots in 2004. The Binding Site Plan contains notes with respect to water,
 9      sewer and stormwater. The Applicant also provided a Preliminary Drainage Report
10      and recommendations (Ex. 7). A recommended condition of approval requires the
        Applicant to comply with the applicable Building Codes, Fire Codes, and
11      Engineering standards in effect at the time of Building Permit application.

12   6. Concurrency Levels. The project will comply with transportation concurrency
     requirements. All the findings regarding concurrency levels are for the most part based
13   upon the traffic report, Ex. 10. The traffic report was prepared by a transportation
14   engineer working on behalf of Transportation Solutions. The findings of the traffic
     report are found to be determinative as there was no evidence presented that conflicted
15   with the report’s analysis. Further, and most importantly, the City’s engineering
     manager recommended approval of the concurrency application based upon the
16   findings of the report. Level of service standards are addressed below in the order they
     are addressed in Section 14.10.070-080 of the City’s concurrency ordinance.
17

18   The site will be accessed from Roosevelt Avenue and Continental Place. Roosevelt
     Avenue is a three-lane east-west urban collector adjacent to the Project site. The street
19   travels from the BNSF railroad right-of-way to N 18th Avenue before transitioning to
     a local street. Roosevelt Ave has a paved width of 39 feet, including a 13-foot center
20   turn lane, two 13-foot travel lanes with 6-foot sidewalks on both sides of the street. The
     posted speed limit is 25 mph. Continental Place is a three-lane north-south urban
21   collector adjacent to the Project site. The street connects to College Way and ends to
22   the north at Hoag Rd. Continental Pl includes a 39-foot paved width with two 13-foot
     travel lanes, a 13-foot center turn lane, and 6-foot-wide sidewalks on both sides of the
23   street at the project frontage.

24   A. Pedestrian LOS. The project will provide for adequate. Continental Place includes
        a six-foot concrete sidewalk with curb and gutter on the Project side of the street
25
        from the Project frontage to E College Way to the north. Roosevelt Avenue includes
        six-foot concrete sidewalk with curb and gutter on the Project side of the street from
        Continental Place to N 9th Street to the west. The Concurrency study concludes




     Site Plan and Transportation Concurrency Recommendation                    Page | 3


        ultimate pedestrian safety LOS is satisfied. Any new or modified pedestrian
 1      facilities, including sidewalks, driveway pads, curb ramps, and on-site facilities,
        must satisfy current Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards.
 2

 3   B. Traffic Capacity LOS. The project will cause no new intersection LOS deficiencies
        with implementation of the City’s capital improvements identified in the City’s
 4      Capital Improvements Plan. MVMC 14.10.080B1 adopts LOS D for principal and
        minor arterials.
 5
        The project will result in 102 new PM Peak Hour weekday trips. As shown on Table
 6
        2 of Ex. 10, the project will minorly impact four street segments on Division Street
 7      and Anderson Road, all Principal Arterials. Each section is already operating at
        LOS E or F. The project will add four or less trips to these roadway segments. The
 8      project impacts will not further reduce LOS of any segment. Three of the four
        segments, all on Division Street, are LOS exempt pursuant to MVMC 14.10.060.
 9      The final segment on Anderson Road is scheduled for re-channelization and
        sidewalk construction in the City’s 2024-2029 Capital Improvement Plan.
10

11      The project will also impact three regional intersections at S 1st Street/Freeway
        Drive and W Division Street, the 1-5 NB Ramp and Anderson Road, and Laventure
12      Road and Blackburn Road (Ex. 10, Table 3). Each of the three intersections are
        currently level of service (LOS) deficient intersections operating at LOS E and F.
13      The project will add four or less trips to these intersections. These intersections
14      have existing deficiencies that will not further degrade because of the project. Each
        of these deficient intersections is identified within the City’s 2024-2029 Capital
15      Improvement Plan for future improvements including intersection realignment, re-
        channelization, introduction of sidewalks and/or introduction of left turn lanes.
16
        The project will also have local intersection impacts at Continental Place and
17      Roosevelt Avenue, Continental Place and College Way, and Roosevelt Avenue and
18      N 18th Street (Ex. 10, Table 4). The two intersections with Continental Place
        currently operate at LOS B and will continue to do so with and without the project.
19      The N 18th Street intersection operates at LOS C and will continue to do so with or
        without the project.
20
     C. Street Design LOS. The traffic report identifies that the two streets fronting the
21      project site all meet or are close to meeting the street design standards required by
22      MVMV 16.16.070 for required pavement width, sidewalk width, parking and travel
        land width. Per MVMC 14.10.090, minimum street design LOS improvements
23      should be in place at the project frontage to the point where the project connects
        with an arterial street that satisfies the three-quarter street design LOS standard on
24      the Project side of the street. Three-quarter street LOS standards include sidewalk,
        curb, gutter, and one-half of the ultimate pavement width on the Project side of the
25
        right-of way, and a minimum 14-foot pavement width on the opposite side of the
        street (MVMC 14.10.080).




     Site Plan and Transportation Concurrency Recommendation                   Page | 4


        The ultimate cross-section for three-lane urban collector streets without bike lanes,
 1      per MVMC 16.16.070, includes a 40-foot paved width with two 14-foot travel lanes
        and one 12-foot center turn lane and six-foot sidewalks on both sides. Continental
 2
        Place connects to College Way, which meets the three-quarter LOS street standard.
 3      Continental Place and Roosevelt Avenue at the project frontage are 39-feet wide
        with two 13-foot travel lanes, one 13-foot center lane, and two 6-foot sidewalks.
 4      An additional foot of pavement width and lane restriping would be required to meet
        the urban collector standard.
 5
        The City has concluded that given the built-out state of Continental Place and
 6
        Roosevelt Avenue, the minor difference between the existing street design and the
 7      ultimate street design standard, no mitigation is recommended.

 8   D. On-Site LOS. The on-site LOS will be satisfied for both parking and site access.
        The code requires a minimum of 104 parking spaces for this size and use. The
 9      project will provide 120 parking spaces including 12 ADA spaces. The
10      Concurrency Report concludes the project as designed will meet the driveway
        spacing. The proposed driveway width does not meet code requirements. A
11      recommended condition of approval will require the Applicant to obtain
        engineering approval from the City Engineer regarding the driveway design.
12
     E. Transit LOS. Transit is adequately addressed. Skagit Transit operates Route 205
13      with stops on College Way to the east of Continental Place, approximately 620 feet
14      northeast of the Project frontage. Route 205 is a half-hourly route that serves Skagit
        Station and Skagit Valley College via Riverside Dr and College Way. Transit is
15      expected to be minimally impacted by the Project.

16   F. Nonmotorized Transportation LOS. Roosevelt Avenue and Continental Place are
        identified in the Mount Vernon Comprehensive Plan as planned bicycle routes. The
17      existing street sections provide sidewalks on both sides and serve relatively low
18      traffic volumes. No additional nonmotorized facilities are required. Nonmotorized
        Transportation LOS is satisfied.
19
     G. Pavement Condition LOS. The existing pavement on Roosevelt Ave is in good
20      condition in the project vicinity. According to the Concurrency Study, there is some
        alligator cracking near the intersection with Continental Place. Continental Place at
21      the project frontage appears to be in fair condition, with some alligator cracking in
22      the northbound lane. The study recommended the existing pavement condition be
        reviewed. A recommended condition of approval of this Recommendation will
23      require the Applicant to implement the recommendations of the Concurrency
        Report (Ex. 10).
24

25




     Site Plan and Transportation Concurrency Recommendation                   Page | 5


                                   CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
 1
     Procedural:
 2

 3   1. Authority of Hearing Examiner. Pursuant to MVMC 14.05.060 a site plan approval
     is a Type I administrative approval (See also MVMC 14.05.050.B). Transportation
 4   Concurrency decisions are Type IV decisions when more than 75 PM Peak Hour Trips
     are generated (MVMC 14.05.060). The hearing examiner has authority to hold hearings
 5   and make recommendations on Type IV decisions to the City Council (MVMC
     14.05.050.B and MVMC 14.05.080.G.2.j). When two permits types are requested
 6
     concurrently, the review process is consolidated under the highest review process
 7   (MVMC 14.05.080.I.2).

 8   Substantive:
 9   2. Zoning Designation. The project site is zoned C-2 General Commercial.
10
     3. Review Criteria. Site Plan permits are governed by MVMC 17.09.080.
11   Transportation Concurrency when a project results in more than 75 PM Peak Hour
     Trips is governed by MVMC 14.10.150. Relevant review criteria are quoted below in
12   italics and applied through corresponding conclusions of law:
13                                       Site Plan Review
14
     MVMC 17.90.080: Prior to applying for site plan review, a developer may file a
15   request for a preliminary site plan review which shall contain in a rough and
     approximate manner all of the information required in the site plan application. The
16   application must clearly state that it is a request for a preliminary site plan review. The
     purpose of the preliminary site plan review is to enable a developer filing the plan to
17   obtain advice about the applicability of the intent, standards and provisions of this
18   chapter to the plan. After the filing of the preliminary site plan, the city shall make
     available to the developer its written advice regarding the compatibility of the
19   preliminary site plan with the intent, standards and provisions of this chapter.

20   4. MVMC 17.90.080 as quoted above is as close as the City's site plan regulations get
     to actually identify the site plan criteria that must be met for site plan approval. MVMC
21   17.90.080 requires conformance to the intent and "provisions" of "this chapter [the site
22   plan chapter]," but the site plan standard has no specific standards that regulate
     development. As a result, only the "intent" of the chapter serves as criteria for
23   development. However, the intent as listed in MVMC 17.90.010 is too vague to be
     enforced in any constitutionally supportable manner. The best that can be done to
24   implement the site plan chapter with such a dearth of review standards is to conclude
     that the general objectives of MVMC 17.90.010 "intent" are implemented via the City's
25
     zoning code. The site plan application requirements of MVMC 17.90.070 suggest that
     conceptual building and engineering issues related to infrastructure design are also
     assessed. The building and engineering review is construed as conceptual since




     Site Plan and Transportation Concurrency Recommendation                     Page | 6


     building and construction permits require a more detailed review of conformance to
 1   building and engineering standards. The staff report doesn't identify what level of staff
     review was involved in assessing building and engineering code standard issues.
 2
     Presumably since staff is recommending approval as conditioned the site has been or
 3   will be fully evaluated prior to the issuance of building permits and the site is found to
     be appropriately designed as conditioned to accommodate the City's engineering and
 4   building code standards. Zoning code standards are addressed in detail in Section D-2
     of the staff report, specifically with respect to the use of the property and conformance
 5   to bulk and dimensional standards, access, internal circulation and parking
     requirements, and landscaping. The staff report establishes conformance to the City's
 6
     zoning code standards as required for site plan approval.
 7
                             Transportation Concurrency Review
 8
     MVMC 14.10.150: A determination of concurrency shall be granted if any one of the
 9   following criteria is fulfilled:
10
        A. Improvements and infrastructure required to provide the necessary LOS in
11      conformance with the requirements of this chapter are in place or are identified in
        the city’s six-year the capital facilities plan as being fully funded;
12
        B. The preliminary development approval is conditioned on the necessary facilities
13      being in place prior to the final approval of the development
14
        C. The necessary facilities and services are guaranteed to be in place when the
15      development impacts occur by a bonded and enforceable development order;
        provided, that bonding is recommended by the city engineer and approved by the
16      city council in accordance with applicable ordinances.
17   5. As conditioned, the proposal satisfies the City’s concurrency standards for the
18   reasons identified in Finding of Fact No. 6. All mitigation required of the Applicant is
     conditioned to be completed prior to final development approval or bonded as
19   authorized by the City Council as required by MVMC 14.10.150.B and C.

20      A. Pedestrian Safety LOS. Both frontage roads are developed with six-foot width
           sidewalks, curb and gutter. No further pedestrian improvements are required.
21

22      B. Traffic Capacity LOS. The project will not result in impacts to LOS for any
           road segments or regional or local intersections. All segments and regional
23         intersections in the project study area are already functionally below the City’s
           adopted LOS. Three of the four road segments are exempt from concurrency
24         review. The remaining road segment is listed as a project in the City’s Capital
           Improvement Plan. All three regional intersections currently operate below the
25
           City’s adopted LOS standard and are projects listed in the City’s Capital
           Improvement Plan. The project will not have LOS impacts on the local
           intersections.




     Site Plan and Transportation Concurrency Recommendation                    Page | 7


 1      C. Street Design LOS. As conditioned, the project will provide for adequate street
           design. Both roads fronting the project are developed to less than the required
 2
           street design dimensions. The City has concluded that given the built-out state
 3         of Continental Place and Roosevelt Avenue, the minor difference between the
           existing street design and the ultimate street design standard, no mitigation is
 4         recommended.

 5      D. On-Site LOS. The on-site LOS will be satisfied for both parking and site access.
           The Concurrency Report concludes the project as designed will meet the
 6
           driveway spacing. The proposed driveway width does not meet code
 7         requirements. A recommended condition of approval will require the Applicant
           to obtain engineering approval from the City Engineer regarding the driveway
 8         design.
 9      E. Transit LOS. As conditioned, the proposal meets transit LOS. MVMC
           14.10.080E identifies no LOS level for transit service, other than to identify that
10
           SKAT regularly assess the need for transit routes The traffic report concludes
11         that transit LOS is met for the reasons identified in Finding of Fact No. 6E.
           Given the absence of any standard for assessing adequacy of transit, the
12         expertise of the traffic engineer and the reasoning expressed in Finding of Fact
           No. 6E conclusively establish that the proposal meets Transit LOS.
13

14      F. Nonmotorized Transportation LOS. MVMC 14.10.080F requires development
           proposals to be evaluated for compliance with a comprehensive trail plan. The
15         traffic report identifies that Roosevelt Avenue and Continental Place are
           designated in the Comprehensive Plan as planned bicycle routes. Both streets
16         have sufficient lane width to accommodate bicycle lanes. The City Engineer
           can require bicycle lane markings during project review if he determines the
17         timing is right to do so. As such, the proposal meets the non-motorized
18         transportation level of service standards.

19      G. Pavement Condition LOS. The proposal meets pavement condition LOS.
           MVMC 14.10.080G requires that the city engineer shall evaluate the existing
20         pavement condition when recommending requirements for development. The
           Concurrency Study found the existing pavement on Roosevelt Ave is in good
21         condition in the project vicinity. There is some alligator cracking near the
22         intersection with Continental Place. Continental Place at the project frontage
           appears to be in fair condition, with some alligator cracking in the northbound
23         lane. The study recommended the existing pavement condition be reviewed. A
           recommended condition of approval of this Recommendation will require the
24         Applicant to implement the recommendations of the Concurrency Report (Ex.
           10).
25




     Site Plan and Transportation Concurrency Recommendation                   Page | 8


                                 RECOMMENDATION
 1

 2   As conditioned, the proposal complies with all site plan and transportation concurrency
     permit criteria and requirements for the reasons identified in the Conclusions of Law
 3   above. For these reasons, the recommends the City Council approve subject to the
     recommended condition of approval below:
 4
        1. All trees located within 10 feet of a utility main, sidewalk, drive lane, walkway,
 5         or other similar feature shall have a root barrier installed. Public (City and PUD
 6         #1) sanitary and storm sewers and water lines shall not be installed within
           approximately five feet of where trees will be planted.
 7
        2. The Applicant shall complete a lot aggregation through the Boundary Line
 8         Adjustment process for all affected lots within the Applicant’s ownership.
 9
        3. The Applicant shall submit a revised Site Plan prior to issuance of Building
10         Permits. The revised Site Plan shall be the basis for Building Permit review and
           shall incorporate the conditions of approval of this Recommendation as well as
11         the mitigation measures from the March 3, 2026 MDNS (Ex. 4c), the
           recommendations of the Transportation Concurrency Report (Ex. 10), the
12         recommendations of the Preliminary Drainage Report (Ex. 7), and the
           requirements of Section F Notes to the Applicant and Parties of Record from
13
           the Staff Report (Ex. 12).
14
        4. All subsequent development shall comply with the applicable Building Codes,
15         Fire Codes, and Engineering standards in effect at the time of Building Permit
           application. The approved site plan application does not authorize any
16         construction activities required to construct and/or install the proposed project.
           The Applicant shall apply for and receive approval of all additional applicable
17
           permits including the Building Permit, Fill and Grade Permit, Right of Way
18         permit, etc.

19      5. The Applicant shall apply for a Floodplain Development Permit if necessary.
           All development shall comply with Floodplain regulations (MVMC 15.36.285)
20         including obtaining approval for development with the US Army Corp of
21         Engineers, when applicable.

22              Dated this 8th day of May 2026.

23

24

25                                       Emily Terrell
                                         City of Mount Vernon
                                         Hearing Examiner Pro Tem




     Site Plan and Transportation Concurrency Recommendation                  Page | 9


                      NOTICE OF HEARING EXAMINER RECOMMENDATION &
                                  NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

PROJECT                    Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic Site Plan, SEPA, and Traffic Concurrency– PLAN25-0136 and
NAME/NUMBER                ENGR24-0386

PROJECT DESCRIPTION:       Proposed is a new outpatient clinic facility operated by the Veterans Association, located in the
                           General Commercial (C-2) zone and an A21 flood zone. The facility is proposed to be 26,723
                           square feet and 23 feet in height and will be served by 120 parking spaces accessed from
                           Roosevelt Avenue and Continental Place. Site development also includes associated lighting,
                           landscaping, trash enclosure, and other accessory improvements.


PROJECT LOCATION:          1501 Continental Pl, Mount Vernon, WA 98273, Skagit County Parcel Nos. P121640, P121637,
                           and P121636.

On April 23, 2026 the Mount Vernon Hearing Examiner held an open record public hearing on the above described project.
On May 8, 2026 the Hearing Examiner rendered a recommendation on this project and on May 11, 2026 the Examiner’s
recommendation is being distributed. Mount Vernon Municipal Code (MVMC) 14.05.110(H)(4) states that an applicant or
party of record feeling that the recommendation of the examiner is based on an erroneous procedure, errors of law or fact,
err in judgment, or the discovery of new evidence, which could not be reasonably available at the public hearing, may
make a written application for review within 10 days.

The applicant and parties of record have until MAY 20, 2026 to submit a request for reconsideration.

City staff has created a page on the City’s permit portal where the site plans, technical reports, and other pertinent
information can be viewed by following these directions: navigate to: https://ci-mountvernon-
wa.smartgovcommunity.com/Public/Home once on this webpage click on the brown “GO” link under the heading “Public
Notices”. Type in the project number identified in this notice into the search bar near the top of the screen. Click on the
project number listed below the search bar when it appears.

PUBLIC HEARING:            A closed record public hearing on the above-described project will be held by the Mount
                           Vernon City Council on May 27, 2026. This hearing will be held at the City’s Police/Court
                           Campus located at 1805 Continental Place and the Council’s agenda for this evening will begin
                           at 7PM.

CITY CONTACT:              Further information can be obtained by contacting the following:
                           City of Mount Vernon, Development Services Department
                           Contact: Rebecca Lowell
                           910 Cleveland Ave.
                           Mount Vernon, WA 98273
                           (360) 336-6214

ISSUED:                    May 11, 2026


                                 EXHIBIT B
      STAFF REPORT FROM THE CITY’S DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT




Resolution ___
Page 5


                                                                            STAFF REPORT for
                                                     VA CLINIC SITE PLAN AND TRAFFIC CONCURRENCY –
                                                               PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386
 STAFF REPORT SUMMARY & CONTENTS

 RECOMMENDATION:                     APPROVAL WITH CONDITIONS as outlined on pages 14 and 15 of this Staff Report.

 PROJECT SUMMARY:                    A 26,723 square foot, 23-foot tall medical building for outpatient medical services operated
                                     by the Veterans Association with 120 vehicle parking stalls and landscaping improvements.

 PROJECT ADDRESS:                    1501 Continental Place, Mount Vernon, WA.

 PARCEL NUMBERS:                     P121640, P121637, and P121636

 PROPERTY OWNER:                     Parcels P121637, P121640             APPLICANT: VA Development, LLC
                                     VA Development, LLC                                  C/O Mark Biagotti, President, SDA Inc.
                                     5655 S. Yosemite Street, Suite 460                   5655 S. Yosemite Street, Suite 460
                                     Greenwood Village, CO 80111                          Greenwood Village, CO 80111

                                     Parcel P121636
                                     SDA INC
                                     5655 S. Yosemite Street, Suite 460
                                     Greenwood Village, CO 80111

 VICINITY MAP:                                                                                 REPORT CONTENTS:

                                                                                               Staff Report Summary        1
                                                                                               & Contents

                                                                                               A. Project Description      2
                                                                                               & Location

                                                                                               B. Exhibit List             2-3

                                                                                               C. Existing Conditions      3-11
                                                                                               & Findings of Fact
                                                                                               D. Traffic Concurrency
                                                                                                                           11-14
                                                                                               and Site Plan Approval
                                                                                               Criteria & Staff Analysis
                                                                                               E. Staff                    14-15
                                                                                               Recommendation

                                                                                               F. Notes to the             16-17
                                                                                               Applicant and Parties
                                                                                               of Record




Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                                                                            Page 1 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


 A. PROJECT DESCRIPTION & LOCATION:
 PROJECT DESCRIPTION:                 Proposed is a new outpatient clinic facility operated by the Veterans Association, located in
                                      the General Commercial (C-2) zone and an A21 flood zone. The facility is proposed to be
                                      26,723 square feet and 23 feet in height and will be served by 120 parking spaces accessed
                                      from Roosevelt Avenue and Continental Place. Site development also includes associated
                                      lighting, landscaping, trash enclosure, and other accessory improvements.
                                      Development will require approximately 10,000 cubic yards of grading export and 8,000
                                      cubic yards of import. Stormwater will be collected and conveyed to a new underground
                                      detention system, replacing two existing ponds, and discharged to the City system in
                                      Roosevelt Avenue.
                                      The project is estimated to generate 102 new weekday PM peak hour trips. As this exceeds
                                      75 peak hour trips, concurrency impacts and mitigation will be determined pursuant to
                                      MVMC 14.10.090(D). The Site Plan permit has been consolidated with the Transportation
                                      Concurrency permit per MVMC 14.05.080(G).

 PERMITS:                             PLAN21-0253: Site Plan & SEPA Process
                                      ENGR24-0386: Traffic Concurrency

 ADDRESS:                             1501 Continental Pl, Mount Vernon, WA 98273.

 PARCEL NUMBERS:                      Skagit County Parcel Nos. P121640, P121637, and P121636

 SEC/TWP/RGE:                         ¼ SEC:    SW ¼ of 17         TWP:       34N                       RGE:     04E

 B. EXHIBIT LIST:
 The below-listed Exhibits are hereby incorporated into this Staff Report as if they were fully set forth herein.
      1. Master Land Use Application Form, Agent Authorization Form and Project Narrative
      2. SDA/Veterans Affairs outpatient clinic site plan, floor plan, elevation and perspective drawings
            completed by Pope Design, received January 14, 2026, ALTA Survey of Site completed by Harmsen,
            received June 9, 2025, Landscape Plan completed by Origin Design Group, received December 15,
            2025, and Lighting Plan completed by Prop Design Group, received March 28, 2025
      3. Civil Construction drawings completed by Harmsen, received December 15, 2025 and Skagit PUD
            Plan drawings completed by Harmsen, received May 20, 2025
      4. City’s SEPA and Other Notices
            4a. Technically Compete Determination Letter issued June 10, 2025
            4b. Notice of Application and Proposed Optional MDNS issued and published on June 13, 20125
                  with an Affidavit for Land Use Sign Posting, an Affidavit of Mailing and proof of publication
            4c. MDNS and the SEPA Environmental Staff Report issued March 3, 2026 and published on
                  March 6, 2026 with an Affidavit of Mailing and proof of publication
            4d. Notice of Public Hearing issued and published on April 8, 2026 with an Affidavit of Mailing
                  and proof of publication
      5. SEPA Environmental Checklist received July 29, 2025
      6. Notice of Decision, Approval of Critical Area Assessment, dated February 28, 2025




Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                                                                             Page 2 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


         7.  Preliminary Drainage Report, completed by Harmsen, received December 15, 2025 and
             Stormwater O&M Checklist dated July 29, 2025
         8. Geotechnical Engineering Report completed by The Riley Group, Inc., received July 29, 2025.
         9. Zero Rise Analysis for Mount Vernon VA Outpatient Development, completed by West
             Consultants, received March 28, 2025
         10. Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic Transportation Concurrency Review, completed by
             Transportation Solutions, dated January 16, 2025.
         11. Title Report


 C. EXISTING CONDITIONS & FINDINGS OF FACT
 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN                   Commercial/Industrial           ZONING:     General Commercial (C-2)
 DESIGNATION:                         (M-1, M-2, or C-2)

 ACREAGE:                             Approximately 2.95 acres

 EXISTING STRUCTURES:                 No structures. Two existing detention ponds are located in the northwest corner of
                                      the property.

 EXISTING                             The site is primarily comprised of a grassy field with minimal landscaping and is
 IMPROVEMENTS:                        surrounded by sidewalks, parking areas, and roadways. Refer to the aerial imagery
                                      below.

 SURROUNDING
 LAND USES:                           NORTH     Developed commercial/medical office uses, including multi-story
                                                buildings with associated parking lots and internal drive aisles accessed
                                                from Continental Place and E College Way. Vacant lots to the NW and
                                                NE.

                                      EAST      Bordered by Continental Place. East of the road are additional
                                                commercial/medical office uses characterized by low-rise buildings,
                                                paved parking areas, and connecting access roads. Transitions towards
                                                larger retail/commercial uses closer to the College Way Corridor (further
                                                west).

                                      SOUTH     Bordered by Roosevelt Ave. South of the road is additional commercial
                                                development, including office/medical buildings and landscaped parking
                                                areas. A small forest stand is present just south of development.

                                      WEST      Bordered by Leigh Way. Uses include both commercial and light
                                                manufacturing uses characterized by low-rise buildings, paved parking
                                                areas, and connecting access roads.




Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                                                                   Page 3 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


 The following maps are included to supplement the existing conditions and findings of fact provided herein.
 These maps include:

       •    Zoning and Comprehensive Plan Maps of the subject site and surrounding areas (Maps 2.0 and 3.0) and
       •    Aerial mapping showing different scales of the subject site and surrounding areas (Maps 4.0, 5.0).

MAP 2.0: ZONING MAP OF THE SUBJECT SITE



      N




                                                                               Site




               N




Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                                                                  Page 4 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


MAP 3.0: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP OF THE SUBJECT SITE




                                                      SITE




Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                 Page 5 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


MAP 4.0: AERIAL MAP OF THE SUBJECT SITE



     N




Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report   Page 6 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


MAP 5.0: AERIAL MAP OF THE SUBJECT SITE



      N




Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report   Page 7 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


 MVMC APPLICABLE TO THE PROPOSED PROJECT:
                                      Title 14: Land Use and Development
                                                Chapter 14.05 Administration of Development Regulations
                                                Chapter 14.10 Concurrency Management

                                      Title 17: Zoning
                                                Chapter 17.48 C-2 General Commercial District
                                                Chapter 17.84 Parking
                                                Chapter 17.85 Dumpster and Recycling Standards
                                                Chapter 17.87 Signs
                                                Chapter 17.90 Site Plan Review
                                                Chapter 17.93 Landscaping

 APPLICABLE CHAPTERS OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
                        •     Land Use Element;
                                      •        Economic Development Element; and,
                                      •        Transportation Element.

 On September 14, 2016 the Mount Vernon City Council approved Ordinance 3690 adopting a revised and
 updated Comprehensive Plan for the City consistent with RCW 36.70A. The subject Traffic Concurrency and
 Site Plan has been found to be consistent with the City’s Comprehensive Plan. Additionally, the following Goals,
 Objectives and Policies from the Land Use and Housing Elements of the Comprehensive Plan are provided
 because they directly relate and support the approval of the subject project.

 GOALS, OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES FROM THE LAND USE ELEMENT OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:

 LAND USE GOAL 1: ENHANCE THE QUALITY OF LIFE FOUND IN THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON AS A PLACE TO
 WORK, LIVE AND RECREATE.

                                    Policy 1.1.2:   Maintain zoning and subdivision regulations to ensure that adequate setbacks,
                                                    landscaping and buffering are required where land use impacts occur between
                                                    residential uses of different intensities; along with residential and non-residential
                                                    uses.
                                    Policy 1.1.7:   Public transportation transit stops constructed as part of a development shall be safe,
                                                    clean, comfortable, and attractive.

                    OBJECTIVE       Foster business creation and retention and contribute to the quality of life of the citizens of
                    1.3:            the City of Mount Vernon.

 LAND USE GOAL 8: SUPPORT EXISTING BUSINESSES AND PROVIDE A DYNAMIC BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT FOR
 NEW COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES THAT ENHANCE THE CITY’S EMPLOYMENT AND TAX BASE
 WHILE PROVIDING WELL PLANNED AND ATTRACTIVE FACILITIES.

                    OBJECTIVE       Ensure that office, retail, commercial or industrial development is attractive and blends with
                    8.2:            the surrounding areas.

                                    Policy 8.2.1:   Support development plans that incorporate the following features:
                                                    A) Shared access points and fewer curb cuts;
                                                    B) Internal circulation among adjacent parcels;
                                                    C) Shared parking facilities;
                                                    D) Centralized signage; and
                                                    E) Unified development concepts.
                                    Policy 8.2.4:   Parking areas should be landscaped, especially along public or private roadways, to
                                                    reduce visual impacts.



Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                                                                                    Page 8 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


                                    Policy 8.2.6:    Development should be designed to mitigate potential adverse impacts on adjacent
                                                     properties with different zoning designations (i.e., residential or public zoning).
                                                     Careful consideration of impacts from lighting, landscaping, and setbacks should all be
                                                     evaluated during site design.
                                    Policy 8.2.7:    Landscaping along arterials should be uniform from parcel to parcel to further the
                                                     visual cohesiveness of the area.
                                    Policy 8.2.8:    On-site landscaping should primarily be located at site entries, in front of buildings,
                                                     and at other locations with high visibility from public areas.
                                    Policy 8.2.10:   Site design for office uses, commercial, and mixed-use developments should consider
                                                     ways of improving transit ridership through siting, location of pedestrian amenities,
                                                     walkways, parking, etc.

 GOALS, OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES FROM THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ELEMENT OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
 PLAN:

 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT GOAL 1: HAVE A STRONG PROACTIVE POSITION TOWARDS ECONOMIC
 PROSPERITY THAT PROMOTES A POSITIVE CIVIC IMAGE AND ESTABLISHES MOUNT VERNON AS A PREFERRED
 PLACE FOR INVESTMENT.

                    OBJECTIVE       Determine where the City’s competitive advantages lie and identify clusters of companies
                    1.2:            that can power growth.

                                    Policy 1.2.1:    Maintain the City’s focus on local companies that demonstrate high growth potential;
                                                     and continue to embrace the growing health care cluster led by Skagit Regional Health.

 GOALS, OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES FROM TRANSPORTATION ELEMENT OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:

 TRANSPORTATION GOAL 1: CONTRIBUTE TO A WELL-DESIGNED TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM THROUGH
 REASONABLE, PLANNED, ECONOMICALLY FEASIBLE TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS THAT SUPPORT
 ADOPTED LAND USE PLANS, PROTECT OR IMPROVE BUSINESS ACCESS, AND PROTECT THE CITY’S
 NEIGHBORHOODS.

                    OBJECTIVE       Create a comprehensive street system that provides reasonable vehicular circulation
                    1.1:            throughout the City while enhancing the safety and function of the local transportation
                                    system.

                                    Policy 1.1.1:    Access management, such as restricting left turns and excessive use of driveways,
                                                     should be coordinated with design standards and land use plans to enhance public
                                                     safety and preserve traffic carrying capacity.
                                    Policy 1.1.4:    Provide a balance between protecting neighborhoods from increased through traffic
                                                     while maintaining access to neighborhoods.
                                    Policy 1.1.5 :   Phase implementation of transportation plans concurrently with growth to allow
                                                     adequate transportation facilities and services to be in place concurrent with
                                                     development; or, if the transportation network cannot be feasibly expanded to
                                                     accommodate the adopted land use plan and the adopted level-of-service, for
                                                     financial, geographic, or other reasons, re-examine land use, level-of-service, and
                                                     economic inputs to establish a balance.

                    OBJECTIVE       Coordinate land use and transportation planning to meet the needs of the City.
                    1.2:




Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                                                                                     Page 9 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


                                      Policy 1.2.2:   Manage access along all principal and minor arterial corridors, and access points to
                                                      residential, commercial, and industrial development. Utilize adopted Access
                                                      Management techniques to preserve the flow of traffic on the road system while
                                                      providing adequate access to adjacent land uses. These could include: limit the
                                                      number of driveways (usually one per parcel); locate driveways away from
                                                      intersections; and connect parking lots and consolidate driveways to create more
                                                      pedestrian-oriented street design and encourage efficiency of both land uses and the
                                                      adjacent transportation system.

                    OBJECTIVE         Strive to reduce traffic congestion that degrades the safety and reasonable functioning of
                    1.3:              the local transportation system.

                                      Policy 1.3.1:   Develop a system of level-of-service standards which promote growth where
                                                      appropriate while preserving and maintaining the existing transportation system.

                    OBJECTIVE         Design transportation facilities to preserve and to be consistent with the natural and built
                    1.4:              environments.

                                      Policy 1.4.1:   Landscape transportation facilities to complement neighborhood character and
                                                      amenities. Where appropriate, incorporate street trees in planting strips to improve
                                                      air quality and visual aesthetics, and implement traffic calming effects.

                    OBJECTIVE         Implement demand management techniques.
                    1.5:
                                      Policy 1.5.3:   Continue to apply mitigation strategies to reduce the traffic impact of new
                                                      development.

   TRANSPORTATION GOAL 2: COORDINATE EFFORTS WITH SKAGIT TRANSIT TO PROMOTE TRANSIT IMPROVEMENTS AND SERVICES
   TO THE CITY’S RESIDENTS AND BUSINESSES.

                    OBJECTIVE        Work with Skagit Transit and other jurisdictions to increase the efficiency and convenience
                    2.1              of inter-modal transportation connections within the regional transportation network.

                                     Policy 2.1.1:    Land use patterns should support transit and non-motorized modes of travel by
                                                      encouraging higher density in selected residential and employment areas.

    TRANSPORTATION GOAL 3: MAINTAIN, ENHANCE, AND INCREASE PEDESTRAIN AND BICYCLE TRAVEL BY PROVIDING
    SAFE AND CONVENIENT ROUTES FOR THE COMMUTING AND RECREATING PUBLIC.

                    OBJECTIVE        Provide a non-motorized transportation system that effectively serves the needs of
                    3.1:             pedestrian and bicycle users and encourages non-motorized travel and provides a
                                     continuous network of attractive sidewalks, footpaths, bike routes, pathways, and trails
                                     throughout the City.

                                     Policy 3.1.3:    Improve the safety of crossings for pedestrians and bicycles where streets intersect
                                                      with rail facilities, trails, paths, and all areas where pedestrians and/or bicycle
                                                      movements are encouraged.
                                     Policy 3.1.4:    Whenever practical, provide safe access for pedestrians and bicyclists to transit
                                                      stops.




Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                                                                                    Page 10 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


 PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS COMPLETED LEADING UP TO THIS STAFF RECOMMENDATION:

     DATE                DESCRIPTION
     03/28/2025          Applications Submitted
     04/02/2025          Application Incomplete Letter sent to Applicant
     05/22/2025          Second Application Incomplete Letter sent to Applicant
     06/10/2025          Technically Complete Letter Issued to Applicant
     07/02/2025          Correction Notice #1 Issued to Applicant
     08/21/2025          Applicant resubmitted corrections in response to Deficiency Notice #1
     06/13/2025          Notice of Application (NOA) and Optional MDNS Determination Issued
     06/30/2025          NOA/Optional MDNS Comment Period Ended
     08/11/2025          Correction Notice #2 Issued to Applicant
     01/14/2026          Applicant resubmitted corrections in response to Deficiency Notice #2
     1/28/2026           NOA/Optional MDNS re-noticed due to addition of property to proposal
     2/11/2026           Re-noticed NOA/Optional MDNS Comment Period Ended
     03/03/2026          MDNS Issued with Comment and Appeal Period – accompanied by environmental report
     03/16/2026          SEPA Determination Appeal Period Tolls
     04/28/2026          Notice of Hearing Issued

 D. TRAFFIC CONCURRENCY AND SITE PLAN APPROVAL CRITERIA, STAFF
    FINDINGS, & STAFF ANALYSIS

 Mount Vernon Municipal Code Chapters 14.10 and 17.90 contains the below listed criteria that that must be
 satisfied for the subject permit(s). Following each of the listed criteria staff has provided their analysis and
 findings.

          1.       MVMC 14.10.090: If a project or any phase of a project generates more than 75 peak hour trips,
                   concurrency impacts and mitigation will be determined by the city council based on
                   recommendation by the planning commission and/or hearing examiner following a
                   recommendation by the city engineer. If the underlying permit provides for an appeal to the city
                   council, the city council will determine the concurrency impacts and mitigation at a single
                   consolidated open record hearing on any appeal of the underlying permit approval and/or SEPA
                   determination.

                   Exhibit 10 of this Staff Report contains a Traffic Concurrency report from the City’s consulting
                   traffic engineer, Transportation Solutions (TSI). This report contains the relevant existing
                   conditions, project trip generation, transportation concurrency standards, findings and
                   recommendations for the subject development.

                   Staff notes that 102 new weekday PM peak hour trips will be generated with the project proposal;
                   however, no new traffic capacity LOS deficiencies will result. The recommendations from this
                   report are as follows:

                        •    The final determination of the adequacy of the proposed driveway design will be at the
                             discretion of the City Engineer.
                        •    Given the built-out state of Continental Place and Roosevelt Avenue and the minor
                             difference between the existing street section and the ultimate street design standard, no
                             street widening is recommended.




Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                                                                  Page 11 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


                        •    The existing pavement condition on Continental Place and Roosevelt Avenue at the Project
                             frontage should be reviewed prior to approval.
                        •    Any new or modified pedestrian facilities, including sidewalks, driveway pads, curb ramps,
                             and on-site facilities, must satisfy current Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards.
                        •    The Project’s preliminary transportation impact fee calculation is $136,068.

          2.       MVMC 17.90.030 states site plan review and approval shall be required prior to the use of land for
                   the location of any commercial, industrial or public building or activity and for the location of any
                   building in which more than five dwelling units would be contained.

                   The submittal requirements for Site Plans are codified within MVMC 17.90.070 and among other
                   items the intent of Site Plan review is, “ensure uniformity in the application of codes, regulations,
                   policies and other regulatory devices that affect land development” [MVMC 17.90.010(E)]. The
                   codes, regulations, policies and other regulatory devices applicable to the subject development
                   are outlined below:

                   Use of the Property: The proposed site use is for outpatient medical services, which are an
                   allowed use under MVMC 17.48.020(A) for the General Commercial (C-2) Zone as an office use.

                   Pursuant to the definition of “office use” in MVMC 17.06.150, medical and other healthcare uses
                   are classified as office uses. Importantly, the proposed use of the site is not a hospital.

                   The building code occupancy group for the proposed structure is Business Occupancy (B).


                   Setbacks: MVMC 17.48.060 requires the following setbacks:
                       • Minimum Front Yard Setback: 10 feet. Buildings on corner lots and through lots shall
                          observe the minimum setback on both streets. For properties that front on an arterial, the
                          minimum setback from the right-of-way shall be 25 feet.
                       • Minimum Side/Rear Setback: none, except along any property line adjoining a residentially
                          zoned district, with no intervening street or alley, there shall be a setback of at least 5 feet.

                   Front yard setbacks are taken from the edge of road right-of-way and/or access easements except
                   in cases where an alley is utilized as a secondary access point where the property line abutting the
                   alley shall not be a front property line (MVMC 17.06.160, definition of Property Line, Front).
                   Consistent with this definition, the property must comply with front yard setback requirements
                   along Continental Place, Roosevelt Avenue, and Leigh Way. All three of these rights-of-way are
                   classified as Urban Collectors which are classified as a type of arterial street.

                   The below listed setbacks are all illustrated on the site plans accompanying this staff report
                   identified as Exhibit 2:

                   Front yard abutting Continental Pl: 25 feet
                   Front yard abutting Roosevelt Ave: 25 feet
                   Front yard abutting Leigh Way: 25 feet
                   The side yard: none
                   The rear yard: none

                   All of the above-listed setbacks comply with the zoning code.




Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                                                                     Page 12 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


                   Building Height: MVMC 17.48.070 states that building height in the C-2 district is unrestricted
                   except for fire safety considerations and building code considerations (Ord. 3315, 2006; Ord. 2352,
                   1989).

                   The site plans accompanying this Staff Report identified as Exhibit 2 identify the maximum roof
                   height at 23 feet with most of the structure at a height of 21 feet.

                   Lot Area and Width: MVMC 17.48.050 states there are no limitations on lot area and width.

                   Parking: The parking requirements for the subject development are comprised of the below listed
                   elements from MVMC Chapter 17.84:

                   Number of Parking Spaces: MVMC 17.84.030(N) requires 1 parking space for every 250 sf of net
                   floor area. Net floor area for the purposes of calculating the number of parking spaces is defined
                   in MVMC 17.06.060 as the main areas of the building that are occupied. It does not include
                   accessory areas ordinarily used by the occupant such as restrooms, stairs, shafts, wall thickness,
                   corridors and mechanical rooms.

                   Using the definition for net floor area, the applicant has demonstrated that the proposed 26,612
                   s.f. building is reduced to 24,759 s.f., which when divided by 250 equals a requirement to create
                   99 off-street parking stalls. The project proposes to provide a total of 123 off-street parking spaces,
                   and therefore complies with the required number of off-street parking spaces.

                   Size of Parking Spaces: MVMC 17.84.060 requires parking stalls arranged at 90-degrees to be a
                   minimum of 9 feet wide by 19 feet deep and shall have an adjacent access aisle not less than 60
                   inches. Where two adjacent spaces are provided, the access aisle may be shared between the two
                   spaces. Per MVMC 17.84.060, 25% of parking stalls may be compact, allowing a size reduction to
                   8 feet wide by 16 feet deep. With 99 parking stalls required, no less than 75 may be smaller than
                   the standard dimension stated above.

                   The parking lot is located south of the building and is proposed to include a total of 123 parking
                   stalls. The site plan currently shows 76 standard stalls, each measuring 9 feet wide by 19 feet deep,
                   and 47 compact stalls, each measuring 8 feet wide by 19 feet deep. Therefore, the proposal
                   complies with the requirements MVMC 17.84.060. To ensure non-compact vehicles are not
                   parking in compact stalls staff has added a suggested condition requiring all compact stalls have
                   the word COMPACT painted on them.

                   Number and Location of ADA Parking Spaces: MVMC 17.84.065 requires a minimum of 10%
                   accessible (ADA) parking spaces for outpatient medical care facilities classified as IBC Occupancy
                   Group I-1 or I-2. The proposed building is classified as a Business Occupancy (B) and must comply
                   with the number of accessible parking spaces specified in Table No. 1 of MVMC 17.84.065, the
                   Washington State Building Code (Chapter 11), RCW 19.27.550 and RCW 70.92. With a total of 123
                   parking spaces, the project is required to provide five accessible spaces. The proposal includes five
                   accessible spaces, and therefore complies with the accessible parking requirements.

                   Drive Lanes: MVMC 17.84.060 requires two-way drive aisles to have a minimum width of 24 feet
                   when 90-degree parking is provided. The site plans submitted by the applicant show drive aisles
                   with a minimum width of 24 feet, consistent with code requirements.




Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                                                                    Page 13 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


                   Landscaping: The landscaping requirements for the subject development are comprised of the
                   below-listed elements from Chapter 17.93 MVMC:

                   General Site Landscaping: MVMC 17.93.020(G) requires a minimum of 10% of the gross site area
                   to be landscaped. The gross site area is 128,759 square feet (2.95 acres), resulting in a minimum
                   landscaping requirement of 12,876 square feet. The proposal includes 22,199 square feet of
                   landscaping, or approximately 17% of the gross site area, and therefore satisfies code
                   requirements.

                   Landscaping along Street Frontages: MVMC 17.93.020(D) requires a 10-foot wide landscaping strip
                   with specified trees, shrubs, and groundcover to be installed along street frontages. This
                   requirement applies to the site’s frontage on Leigh Way, Roosevelt Ave, and Continental Pl. As
                   shown in Exhibit 2, sheet L-3, this requirement has been met, and the required deciduous trees
                   are identified at 30-foot intervals with shrubs and groundcover installed between trees.

                   Landscaping within Parking Lots: MVMC 17.93.030(B) requires 4 percent of parking areas to be
                   landscaped and MVMC 17.93.030(E) requires a minimum of 1 tree be installed for each 150 sf of
                   required landscape areas. There is one parking area onsite located immediately south of the
                   proposed structure. As shown in Exhibit 2, the parking area is 60,208 sf in size, which requires
                   2,408 sf of landscaping and 16 trees. The applicant has proposed 3,882 sf of landscaping and 26
                   trees, which satisfies this requirement.

                   Landscape Screening: MVMC 17.93.040(B) requires Type II landscape screening between C-2
                   zoned properties and all residentially zoned or used properties unless the owner of the
                   residentially zoned property agrees to waive the screening requirement. There are no residential
                   zones or uses abutting the subject site; therefore, this requirement does not apply.

                   Type, Size, and Spacing of Trees, Shrubs and Groundcover: MVMC 17.93.020(B) requires all
                   deciduous trees to be a minimum of 2-inch caliper, evergreen trees to be a minimum of 7-feet in
                   height, shrubs to be 2-gallon or greater, and groundcover to be 1-gallon or equivalents. As shown
                   in Exhibit 2 sheet L-2, the minimum size requirements for the site landscaping have been satisfied.

 E. STAFF RECOMMENDATION
 Staff hereby recommends APPROVAL WITH CONDITIONS for the Traffic Concurrency and Site Plan Permits for
 applications, PLAN25-0136 and ENGR24-0386. This recommendation is based on the information, findings, and
 analysis contained within this Staff Report. Staff’s recommendation is subject to compliance with the
 development regulations of the Mount Vernon Municipal Code and the below listed requirements:

          1.       All trees located within 10 feet of a utility main, sidewalk, drive lane, walkway, or other similar
                   feature shall have root barrier installed. Public (City and PUD #1) sanitary and storm sewers and
                   water lines shall not be installed within approximately five feet of where trees will be planted.

          2.       The Applicant shall complete and record a Boundary Line Adjustment aggregating the existing lots
                   as follows:
                       • Lot 3 and the North ½ of Lot 4 of Binding Site Plan No. MV-BSP-02-001.
                       • Lot 5 and the South ½ of Lot 4 of Binding Site Plan No. MV-BSP-02-001.

                   The intention of how the lots of record need to be aggregated shall override staff’s description of
                   the specific lots should the lot description be incongruent with the stated intent.



Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                                                                 Page 14 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


          3.       The Applicant shall submit a revised Site Plan before Building Permit Applications are submitted
                   to the City. This revised Site Plan shall incorporate all the conditions of approval contained within
                   this staff report. This to-be submitted revised and updated Site Plan will be the Site Plan that is
                   submitted with the Building Permit when it is submitted to the City and it will be incorporated into
                   all construction related permits issued by the City.

          4.       Staff’s recommendation for approval (as conditioned herein) of the Site Plan for this project is
                   limited to the following development regulations from the zoning code: setbacks, lot coverage,
                   building height, landscaping and parking. The site plan approval DOES NOT approve elements of
                   this project reviewed under different regulations such as: Building Code, Fire Code, ADA,
                   Engineering Standards and/or requirements. Additionally, the site plan approval DOES NOT
                   authorize any construction activities required to construct and/or install the proposed project, and
                   the Applicant will be required to apply for and receive other permits (e.g. Building Permit, Fill and
                   Grade Permit, Right-of-Way Permit, etc.) that will authorize construction activities to commence.


 STAFF REPORT PREPARED BY:




 Kyle Cotchett,
 Consultant Planner

 APPROVED BY:



                                                                    04/16/2026
 Rebecca S. Bradley-Lowell,                                         Date
 Principal Planner




Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                                                                  Page 15 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


 F. NOTES TO THE APPLICANT AND PARTIES OF RECORD

          1.       Other Permits and Approvals Required: the applicant will be required to submit and work
                   through the approval process to obtain permits authorizing the construction/installation of the
                   proposed project.

          2.       SEPA Mitigation Measures Required: the below listed SEPA mitigation measures shall be complied
                   with:

                        1. Any person engaged in ground disturbing activity who encounters or discovers historical
                           and/or archeological materials (e.g., bones, shell, stone, antler tools, etc.) and human
                           remains in or on the ground shall:
                              a. Immediately cease any activity which may cause further disturbance;
                              b. Make a reasonable effort to protect the area from further disturbance; and,
                              c. Report the presence and location of the material to the proper authorities in the
                                  most expeditious manner possible.

                        2. The applicant shall submit a completed Biological Opinion Checklist to the satisfaction of
                           the Development Services Department documenting that the project does not have an
                           adverse effect on endangered species or their critical habitat prior to any permits
                           authorizing land disturbing activities being issued.

                        3. All construction personnel associated with this project shall receive unanticipated
                           discovery protocol training (UDP) prior to any ground-disturbing activities occurring. This
                           required training shall be completed by a professional archaeologist. The Applicant shall
                           submit confirmation to the City with the dates and names of all construction personnel
                           having received this training.

                        4. A copy of the Unanticipated Discoveries Protocol (UDP) shall be on the project site at all
                           times.

          3.       The Applicant will be required to pay all applicable impact fees.

          4.       The concurrency and site plan review sought by the applicant require the City’s Hearing Examiner
                   make a recommendation, at an open record public hearing that will be forwarded to the City
                   Council, who will make a final decision at a closed record public hearing.

                   Unless the time is extended pursuant to the following paragraph, within 10 working days of the
                   conclusion of a hearing, or the date set for submission of additional information pursuant to this
                   chapter, the Hearing Examiner should render a written recommendation, including findings from
                   the record and conclusions therefrom, and City staff shall transmit a copy of such decision by
                   regular mail to the applicant and other parties of record that have specifically requested, in
                   writing, notice of the decision.

                   The time for filing of the Hearing Examiner recommendation may be extended for not more than
                   30 days should the Examiner find that the amount and nature of the evidence to be considered or
                   receipt of additional information justifies such an extension.

          5.       An applicant or party of record feeling that the recommendation of the Hearing Examiner is based
                   on an erroneous procedure, errors of law or fact, error in judgment, or the discovery of new



Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                                                                 Page 16 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


                   evidence, which could not be reasonably available at the public hearing, may make a written
                   application for review within 10 days after the written hearing examiners decision has been
                   rendered. The written request for reconsideration shall be mailed by the requester to the
                   applicant and all parties of record not later than the day following the filing of the request for
                   reconsideration; and the requester shall supply the City with an affidavit that lists all of the names
                   and addresses where their request was sent. The applicant and parties of record shall have eight
                   days following the date of mailing to file a written response. The request for reconsideration shall
                   set forth the specific errors relied upon by the requester, and the Examiner may, after review of
                   the record, take further action as the examiner deems proper. The Examiner may request further
                   information which shall be provided within 10 days of the request. A request for further
                   information shall be mailed by the City to the applicant and all parties of record. The Examiner
                   shall promptly review the reconsideration request and any responses and shall, within 10 days of
                   the deadline for filing responses or receipt of additional information, whichever is later, issue a
                   written decision on the request for reconsideration. A request for reconsideration temporarily
                   suspends the period within which an appeal of the Examiner decision from the date of filing the
                   written request for reconsideration to the date of the decision on reconsideration. If the
                   reconsideration is denied, the period for appeal of the examiner decision shall recommence for
                   the remaining number of days.

           TRANSMITTED this 16th day of April, 2026 to the applicant and parties of record.




Site Plan & Traffic Concurrency Staff Report                                                                   Page 17 of 17
File Numbers: PLAN25-0136 & ENGR24-0386


                      NOTICE OF HEARING EXAMINER RECOMMENDATION &
                                  NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

PROJECT                    Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic Site Plan, SEPA, and Traffic Concurrency– PLAN25-0136 and
NAME/NUMBER                ENGR24-0386

PROJECT DESCRIPTION:       Proposed is a new outpatient clinic facility operated by the Veterans Association, located in the
                           General Commercial (C-2) zone and an A21 flood zone. The facility is proposed to be 26,723
                           square feet and 23 feet in height and will be served by 120 parking spaces accessed from
                           Roosevelt Avenue and Continental Place. Site development also includes associated lighting,
                           landscaping, trash enclosure, and other accessory improvements.


PROJECT LOCATION:          1501 Continental Pl, Mount Vernon, WA 98273, Skagit County Parcel Nos. P121640, P121637,
                           and P121636.

On April 23, 2026 the Mount Vernon Hearing Examiner held an open record public hearing on the above described project.
On May 8, 2026 the Hearing Examiner rendered a recommendation on this project and on May 11, 2026 the Examiner’s
recommendation is being distributed. Mount Vernon Municipal Code (MVMC) 14.05.110(H)(4) states that an applicant or
party of record feeling that the recommendation of the examiner is based on an erroneous procedure, errors of law or fact,
err in judgment, or the discovery of new evidence, which could not be reasonably available at the public hearing, may
make a written application for review within 10 days.

The applicant and parties of record have until MAY 20, 2026 to submit a request for reconsideration.

City staff has created a page on the City’s permit portal where the site plans, technical reports, and other pertinent
information can be viewed by following these directions: navigate to: https://ci-mountvernon-
wa.smartgovcommunity.com/Public/Home once on this webpage click on the brown “GO” link under the heading “Public
Notices”. Type in the project number identified in this notice into the search bar near the top of the screen. Click on the
project number listed below the search bar when it appears.

PUBLIC HEARING:            A closed record public hearing on the above-described project will be held by the Mount
                           Vernon City Council on May 27, 2026. This hearing will be held at the City’s Police/Court
                           Campus located at 1805 Continental Place and the Council’s agenda for this evening will begin
                           at 7PM.

CITY CONTACT:              Further information can be obtained by contacting the following:
                           City of Mount Vernon, Development Services Department
                           Contact: Rebecca Lowell
                           910 Cleveland Ave.
                           Mount Vernon, WA 98273
                           (360) 336-6214

ISSUED:                    May 11, 2026


The exhibits accompanying this Council agenda item are over 100 MB in size. To ensure reasonable download
times staﬀ has removed these items from this agenda item and has provided instructions (below) on how to
download these items from the City’s permit portal.
To download the Exhibits from this Agenda Item:

   1. Navigate to: https://ci-mountvernon-wa.smartgovcommunity.com/Public/Home
   2. Once on this webpage click on the brown “GO” link under the heading “Public Notices”.




   3. Accept the disclaimer that appears.




   4. Type in the project number PLAN25-0136 into the search bar near the top of the screen.




   5. Click on the project number listed below the search bar when it appears.




   6. Scroll down the project page that appears and under the heading ‘Public Notices’ click on the ﬁles
      named ‘Hearing Examiner Staﬀ Report Exhibits 1 – 4 and ‘Hearing Examiner Staﬀ Report Exhibits 5 –
      11.


                                        NEW BUSINESS ITEM: B




MEETING DATE: May 27, 2026
SUBJECT:         Public Hearing and Approval of Ordinance - Battery
                 Energy Storage Systems (BESS)
PRESENTER:       Rebecca Lowell

RECOMMENDED ACTION:
Approval of Ordinance

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:
Consideration of an Ordinance with an updated work plan to establish
permanent regulations for Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS). The
proposed Ordinance will keep the existing moratorium in place until the
work plan is completed.

APPLICABLE DEPARTMENTAL REVIEW
Legal
D.S.

ATTACHMENTS:
1.  Proposed Ordinance and Associated Materials


                                         ORDINANCE NO. 

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON, WASHINGTON, RATIFYING,
RENEWING, CONFIRMING, AND CONTINUING THE MORATORIUM PREVIOUSLY
ADOPTED BY COUNCIL THROUGH ORDINANCES 3913 AND 3915 PURSUANT TO RCW
35A.63.220 AND RCW 36.70A.390; RELATING TO BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS;
ADOPTING FINDINGS OF FACT JUSTIFYING ITS ACTION; PROVIDING FOR
SEVERABILITY; AND ESTABLISHING AN EFFECTIVE DATE

        WHEREAS, RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW 36.70A.390 authorizes the City of Mount
        Vernon to enact interim regulations, official controls and moratoria to preserve the status
        quo while new plans or regulations are considered and prepared and to renew such
        interim regulations, official controls and moratoria; and

        WHEREAS, on May 28, 2025, at a regularly scheduled City Council meeting, the City
        Council declared an emergency and adopted by unanimous passage of Ordinance 3913, a
        moratorium on the acceptance of applications for permits to develop certain types of
        Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS), adopting findings of fact, and directing City
        staff schedule the necessary public hearings as required by law within 60-days; and

        WHEREAS, on July 23, 2025, the Mount Vernon City Council (City Council) held a
        public hearing and adopted Ordinance 3915 finding that the emergency continues to
        existas set forth in Ordinance 3913, adopting additional findings, ratifying, and
        continuing the moratorium adopted through Ordinance 3913. Ordinance 3915 included a
        work plan and findings of fact allowing the moratorium to be in effect for up to one year;
        and

        WHEREAS, Pursuant to RCW 36.70A.390 and/or RCW 35A.63.220, the moratorium
        placed into effect through Ordinances 3913 and 3915 will expire unless City Council
        takes action to renew the moratorium. The moratorium may be renewed for one or more
        six-month periods, provided a subsequent hearing is held and findings of fact are made
        prior to each renewal; and

        WHEREAS, public notice of the City Council’s May 27, 2026 hearing was posted on the
        City’s permit portal on May 20, 2026 and published in the Skagit Valley Herald’s
        classified section on May 21, 2026; and,

        WHEREAS, on May 27, 2026, the City Council held a public hearing regarding the
        renewal of the moratorium established by Ordinances 3913 and 3915; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council finds an emergency continues to exist as set forth in
        Ordinances 3913 and 3915 and there remains an urgent need to keep a moratorium in
        place, provide time to allow city staff to research battery energy storage systems, and
        draft proposed permanent regulations to be considered through the City's public
        participation process providing notice and opportunity for public input before the
        Planning Commission and City Council on any proposed regulations.

NOW THEREFORE THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON,
WASHINGTON, DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:


SECTION 1. RECITALS INCORPORATED. City Council adopts the recitals set forth above as
additional findings of fact justifying adoption of this Ordinance and reaffirms the adoption of the findings

Ordinance 
Page 1


in Ordinance 3913 and 3915 enacting a moratorium on accepting applications for permits to construct,
site, or develop BESS primarily intended, or likely to be used, to store and supply electrical power to the
electrical grid within the City and incorporates those findings (including their recitals) as if set forth fully
herein. Exhibit B to this Ordinance contains a copy of Ordinances 3913 and 3915. The Council may
adopt additional findings in the event additional public hearings are held or evidence presented to the City
Council.

SECTION 2.        ADDITIONAL FINDINGS. The City Council adopts these additional findings and
conclusions:

    1. To date the City has completed the following that is part of the work plan adopted under
       Ordinance 3915:
           a. Studied potential impacts to first responders, noise pollution and adverse visual impacts.
           b. Researched potential mitigation measures to assist in reducing foreseeable impacts to
               property and people living next to and near future BESS.
           c. Presentation from Puget Sound Energy was held before the City Council on October 15,
               2025 regarding BESS.
           d. Engaged in dialog with community members gravely worried about the siting of a BESS
               within or near the City.
    2. The City’s existing regulations are insufficient to protect the community’s health, safety and
       welfare from the development of BESS. The City needs additional time to complete necessary
       research and technical assistance to develop a record and (through the record) recommendations
       from City staff on proposed development regulations to mitigate potential impacts from BESS.
    3. That the City needs to thoroughly evaluate the public safety impacts from BESS including
       impacts resulting from a BESS failure. As noted by Matthew Paiss, a Pacific Northwest National
       Laboratory (PNNL) battery safety expert, “As with any complex electrical appliance or piece of
       equipment, failures occasionally occur…while this is rare, it must be considered in the planning
       process.” 1 Following is an illustrative list of potential impacts from BESS:
           a. Thermal runaway, fire propagation, toxic off-gassing and explosion.
           b. Safety of First Responders. First responders may need specialized training, equipment
               and chemical-specific extinguishing agents to safely suppress large-scale lithium-ion
               battery fires.
           c. Contamination from toxic runoff, contaminated fire suppression water and potential air
               quality impacts.
           d. Zoning Considerations. Noise pollution and adverse odor and visual impacts.

SECTION 3. MORATORIUM IMPOSED. Pursuant to the provisions of RCW 36.70A.390 and RCW
35A.63.220 the City hereby adopts a moratorium on accepting applications for permits to construct, site,
or develop a battery energy storage system that is intended or likely to be used to primarily store and
supply electrical power to the electrical grid within the City.

SECTION 4. EFFECTIVE PERIOD. This ordinance is immediately adopted and shall apply for a
maximum of six-months from adoption.

SECTION 5. CITY TO CONSIDER PERMANENT REGULATIONS. The City Council hereby
directs the City’s Development Services Department to continue research on battery energy storage
systems used to provide power to the electrical grid and to continue the process of drafting proposed
permanent regulations to be considered through the City's public participation process including allowing
for public input and providing for public hearings before the Planning Commission and City Council.
1 Battery Power, PNNL Releases Guidance on Local Battery Energy Storage Systems, (Battery Power, 2023)

https://www.batterypoweronline.com/news/pnnl-releases-guidance-on-local-battery-energy-storage-systems/ (accessed
05/19/2026).

Ordinance 
Page 2


SECTION 6. SEVERABILITY. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance should be
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or
unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity or constitutionality of any other section, sentence, clause or
phrase of this ordinance.

SECTION 7. EFFECTIVE DATE AND DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY. The City Council
hereby declares that an emergency exists necessitating that this Ordinance take effect immediately upon
passage by a majority plus one of the whole membership of the Council, and that the same is not subject
to a referendum. The adoption of the interim regulations within this Ordinance need to be immediately
implemented to address the on-going housing crisis. This Ordinance will not affect any existing rights, or
any vested applications previously submitted to the City.

SECTION 8. ORDINANCE TO BE TRANSMITTED TO DEPARTMENT. Pursuant to RCW
36.70A.106, this Interim Ordinance shall be transmitted to the Washington State Department of
Commerce as required by law.


PASSED AND ADOPTED this 27th day of May, 2026


SIGNED IN AUTHENTICATION this ____ day of ____, 2026.



                                                   ________________________________
                                                   Becky Jensen, City Clerk




                                                   ________________________________
                                                   Peter Donovan, Mayor

Approved as to form:



__________________________________
Kevin Rogerson, City Attorney



Published _________________




Ordinance 
Page 3


                                            EXHIBIT A

         REVISED WORK PLAN FOR ESTABLISHING PERMANENT REGULATIONS


    A. June 2026 to August 2026: Study of potential impacts and mitigation measures to existing and
       future neighborhoods, transportation and utility systems

    B. August to September 2026: Meetings with City Council, Planning Commission, and other
       interested parties to discuss the interim regulations

    C. September to November 2026: Commerce, SEPA, Public Hearing, and Adoption
          a. Commerce 60-day Notice
          b. SEPA
          c. Notice of Public Hearing
          d. Public hearing(s) before the Planning Commission
          e. Public hearing(s) before the City Council
          f. Adoption of permanent development regulations




Ordinance 
Page 4


                        EXHIBIT B

                 ORDINANCES 3913 AND 3915




Ordinance 
Page 5






























                                          NEW BUSINESS ITEM: C




MEETING DATE: May 27, 2026
SUBJECT:          Public Hearing and Approval of Ordinance - Cascade
                  Medical Properties Rezone PLAN25-0535
PRESENTER:        Rebecca Lowell

RECOMMENDED ACTION:
Approval of Ordinance - Add Brief General Description

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:
Approval of an Ordinance to approve the Cascade Medical Properties rezone
(PLAN25-0535) which includes three properties totaling approximately 4
acres in size from a zoning designation of Professional Office District (P-O)
to Residential Office District (R-O). The site addresses are 2010, 2011, and
2123 Little Mountain Lane, Mount Vernon, described by the Skagit County
Assessor as parcels P120440, P120439, and P28551.

APPLICABLE DEPARTMENTAL REVIEW
D.S.

ATTACHMENTS:
1.  Proposed Ordinance and Associated Materials


                                             ORDINANCE NO. 3941

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON, WASHINGTON, PURSUANT TO
CHAPTER 17.111 AMENDMENTS AND RECLASSIFICATIONS OF THE MOUNT VERNON
MUNICIPAL CODE, REZONING A CERTAIN AREA:

         WHEREAS, a rezone application has been submitted to the Hearing Examiner in
         compliance with Chapter 17.111 of the Mount Vernon Municipal Code, and said rezone
         requests a classification of the below described area from the existing land use
         designation(s) to the requested land use designation(s); and

         WHEREAS, all requirements provided in the Mount Vernon Municipal Code Chapters
         17.111 and 14.05 for reclassification of property within the City Limits of Mount Vernon
         have been met; and

         WHEREAS, the Hearing Examiner has recommended that such area be reclassified as
         per petitioner’s request.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF MOUNT VERNON, WASHINGTON, DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1.           The City Council does hereby adopts the above listed recitals as set forth fully herein.

SECTION 2. The City Council adopts the Hearing Examiner’s recommendations, findings of fact and
conclusions of law found in the accompanying Exhibit A.

SECTION 3. The City Council adopted the below listed Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law.

    A. The City has followed SEPA requirements and those requirements for public notification and
       participation outlined in MVMC Chapter 14.05.

    B. The City utilized the State Attorney General Advisory Memorandum: “Avoiding Unconstitutional
       Takings of Private Property” for evaluating constitutional issues, in conjunction with and to
       inform its review of the proposed amendments. The City has utilized the process, a process
       protected under Attorney-Client privilege pursuant to law including RCW 36.70A.370(4), with
       the City Attorney’s Office, which has reviewed the Advisory Memorandum, has discussed this
       Memorandum, including the “warning signals’ identified in the Memorandum, with decisions
       makers, and conducted an evaluation of all constitutional provisions potentially at issue and
       advised of the genuine legal risks, if any, with the adoption of the amendments to assure that the
       proposed regulatory or administrative actions did not result in an unconstitutional taking of
       private property, consistent with RCW 36.70A.370(2).

    C. On May 27, 2026 the City Council held a public hearing to consider the subject rezone
       application. At this hearing Council took testimony from those in attendance, reviewed the
       written materials provided by City staff, and listened to staff analysis respective to the
       applications before Council.

    D. The property (P120440, P120439, and P28551) described and illustrated within the
       accompanying Exhibit B, that is hereby incorporated into this Ordinance with this reference, be
       rezoned from Professional Office (P-O) to Residential Office (R-O).

    E.


Ordinance No. 3941                                                                                    Page 1 of 4


PASSED AND ADOPTED THIS 27th day of May, 2026




SIGNED AND APPROVED THIS ___day of _________, 2026




                                                Peter Donovan, Mayor




                                                Becky Jensen, City Clerk



Approved as to form:



Kevin Rogerson, City Attorney




Published




Ordinance No. 3941                                                         Page 2 of 4


                                  EXHIBIT A
                     HEARING EXAMINER’S RECOMMENDATION




Ordinance No. 3941                                       Page 3 of 4


 1

 2

 3

 4       BEFORE THE HEARING EXAMINER FOR THE CITY OF
                       MOUNT VERNON
 5
                               Emily Terrell, Hearing Examiner
 6

 7    RE: Cascade Medical Properties
 8                                            FINDINGS OF FACT, CONCLUSIONS
            Rezone
                                              OF LAW AND RECOMMENDATION
 9
            PLAN25-0535
10

11                                    INTRODUCTION
12
     The Applicant requests approval of a rezone from Professional Office District (P-O)
13   to Residential Office District (R-O). The parcels are addressed as 2010, 2011 and
     2123 Little Mountain Lane (Parcels P120440, P120439 and P28551). The P-O and R-
14   O districts are both implementing zones within the City’s Residential
     Office/Professional Office Comprehensive Plan Land Use Designation. The rezone is
15
     necessary to allow the City to meet its housing goals as enumerated in the
16   Comprehensive Plan while meeting the City’s criteria for a rezone. The Examiner
     recommends that the City Council approve the rezone.
17
                                    ORAL TESTIMONY
18
     A computer-generated transcript has been prepared of the appeal hearing to provide an
19
     overview of the hearing testimony. The transcript is provided for informational
20   purposes only as Appendix A. Since the transcript is computer generated, it is not
     100% accurate, but does provide a useful indication of what testimony was presented
21   during the hearing.
22                                      EXHIBITS
23
     The Examiner admitted Exhibits 1-5 of the Staff Report during the April 23, 2026
24   hearing. A comment letter from the Stillaguamish Tribe was admitted as Ex. 6. The
     April 19, 2026 Staff Report was admitted as Exhibit 7.
25




     Rezone                                 p. 1                        Recommendation


                                   FINDINGS OF FACT
 1   Procedural:
 2
     1. Applicant. Dr. Steve Johnson, Cascade Medical Properties, LLC, PO Box 2427
 3   Mount Vernon, WA 98273.

 4   2. Hearing. A hearing for the rezone application was held on April 23, 2026.
 5   Substantive:
 6
     3. Site/Proposal Description. The Applicant requests approval of a rezone from
 7   Professional Office District (P-O) to Residential Office District (R-O) for three
     vacant parcels totaling approximately four acres. The parcels are addressed as 2010,
 8   2011 and 2123 Little Mountain Lane (Parcels P120440, P120439 and P28551). The
     Comprehensive Plan Land Use Designation is Residential Office/Professional Office.
 9

10   Pursuant to MVMC 17.09.010, the two implementing zones associated with the
     Residential Office/Professional Office Comprehensive Plan Land Use Designation
11   are Professional Office District (P-O) and Residential Office District (R-O).

12   4. Characteristics of the Area. The project site is in an area with mixed uses. To the
     north are offices. To the east is a school. To the south is single-family housing. To the
13
     west is a church and single-family housing.
14
     5. Adverse Impacts. There are no significant adverse impacts associated with the
15   proposal. Compatibility with adjoining land uses is the only issue of concern at this
     stage of project review. The three parcels proposed for rezoning are not adjacent. The
16   two western parcels are adjacent to each other on the north-south access.
17
     The eastern property is split from the other two by an intervening multi-family
18   property. The rezone from Professional Office (P-O) to Residential Office (R-O) will
     allow the subject parcels to be developed with multi-family housing. The eastern
19   parcel is adjacent to offices, multi-family development and a school property.
     Multifamily or office uses on this property are of a similar scale and intensity to
20   surrounding uses.
21
     Land to the north of the western parcels is vacant. To the west of this property is a
22   large church. To the east is multi-family development and office development. There
     are single family homes to the southwest and south of the western parcels. The rezone
23   in this area could introduce multi-family development which is higher intensity than
     the surrounding single family residential use. However, the existing zoning allows for
24   medical and office uses which are a similar or higher intensity than the proposed
25   multifamily residential use. As such, the rezone provides the opportunity for higher
     compatibility uses than the existing zoning with respect to the surrounding single-
     family development. In any case, the intensity of the use on the subject parcels will be




     Rezone                                  p. 2                          Recommendation


     no more impactful than under the existing zone. No compatibility problems are
 1   reasonably apparent from the administrative record.
 2
     A public comment from the Department of Ecology (Ex. 5) noted there is at least one
 3   wetland on the subject parcels. Critical area reconnaissance will be required for
     subsequent land use application permits. The City will perform critical areas review
 4   and implement applicable critical areas codes at the time of land use permit
     application.
 5
     6. Adequacy of Utilities, Public Facilities and Other Services. The rezone will be
 6
     supported by adequate utilities, public facilities and other services as described more
 7   specifically below.

 8   A. Police and Fire. Police and Fire services are generally available. The specific Fire
        Department standards will be imposed on the eventual development during land
 9      use and building permit application review. The Applicant will be required to pay
10      applicable City of Mount Vernon fire impact fees at the time of building permit
        issuance.
11
     B. Recreation/Schools. The rezone request does not specifically require the provision
12      of recreation or school facilities as the request is not associated with a
        development proposal. However, as the rezone request implements the
13      Comprehensive Plan Land Use Designation, it is assumed the City reviewed both
14      recreation and educational needs related to this Land Use Designation as part of
        the adoption of the Land Use Element of the Comprehensive Plan. The City will
15      review any subsequent development application to ensure adequate provision of
        recreation and school facilities. Additionally, the Applicant will be required to
16      pay both parks and school impact fees applicable to the project at the time of
        building permit issuance.
17

18   C. Stormwater. The rezone request is not associated with a development proposal.
        As noted above, stormwater associated with this Land Use Designation in the
19      Comprehensive Plan was reviewed as part of the Utilities Element of the City’s
        adopted Comprehensive Plan. Any subsequent development will be reviewed
20      against the City’s stormwater standards in place at the time of application
        including stormwater quality and quantity controls.
21

22   D. Water. There is adequate water to support development. Water service is provided
        by Public Utility District #1 of Skagit County, a municipal corporation of the
23      State of Washington. The Applicant will be required to verify water availability
        for any future development with the PUD at the time of land use application. Any
24      relocation, extension or connection of utilities will be at the owner’s expense.
25
     E. Sewer. The staff report notes there is adequate sewer capacity for development in
        the proposed zone at the City’s wastewater treatment plant. The Applicant will be
        required to comply with the City’s engineering standards at the time of land use



     Rezone                                 p. 3                          Recommendation


        application and/or building permit application. Any relocation, extension or
 1      connection of utilities will be at the owner’s expense.
 2
     F. Streets. The Applicant will be required to complete Traffic Concurrency review
 3      before any future development is approved on the subject site. The Traffic
        Concurrency review will condition future development with necessary road
 4      and/or frontage improvements to ensure levels of service are met for future
        development. Additionally, the Applicant will be required to pay applicable traffic
 5      impact fees at the time of building permit issuance.
 6
                                  CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
 7
     Procedural:
 8
     1. Authority of Hearing Examiner. Pursuant to MVMC 14.05.060 a request for a
 9   rezone is a Type IV decisions (MVMC 14.05.060). The hearing examiner has
10   authority to hold hearings and make recommendations on Type IV decisions to the
     City Council (MVMC 14.05.050.B and MVMC 14.05.080.G.2.a).
11
     Substantive:
12
     2. Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map Designation. The project site is in the
13   Residential Office/Professional Office Comprehensive Plan Land Use Designation.
14
     3. Review Criteria. Rezone permit criteria are governed by MVMC 17.111.070,
15   which are quoted below in italics and applied through corresponding conclusions of
     law.
16
     MVMC 17.111.070: When the planning commission or hearing examiner is
17   considering recommendations for reclassifications, or when the city council is
18   considering approval of reclassifications, the planning commission or hearing
     examiner or the city council shall investigate the request for reclassification and shall
19   consider, among other questions, the following:

20      A. Is the request compatible with the city’s comprehensive plan and development
        goals?
21

22   4. Criterion met. The proposed rezone is compatible with the City’s comprehensive
     plan and development goals for the reasons identified 7-8 of the Staff Report (Ex. 7)
23   adopted herein as if set forth in full. The project allows the City to reach its housing
     goals as stated in the Comprehensive Plan. Additionally, the switch from Professional
24   Office District (P-O) to Residential Office District (R-O) is supported by the
     Comprehensive Plan in that the two zones both implement the Residential
25
     Office/Professional Office Comprehensive Plan Land Use Designation.




     Rezone                                  p. 4                          Recommendation


        B. Are public utilities, public facilities and other services currently adequate to
 1      serve the proposed district?
 2
     5. Criterion met. As determined in Finding of Fact No. 6, the proposal will provide
 3   for adequate public utilities, facilities and services.

 4      C. A reclassification to a PUD overlay zone is governed by Chapter 17.69
        MVMC, not this chapter.
 5
     6. Not Applicable. A PUD overlay zone is not requested.
 6

 7                                  Recommendation
 8   Based on the above Findings and Conclusions, the examiner recommends the City
     Council approve the Rezone subject to the following condition:
 9

10   1. The Applicant shall be required to comply with all applicable provisions of the
        Mount Vernon Municipal Code (MVMC).
11
               Dated this 8th day of May 2026.
12

13

14                                       Emily Terrell
                                         Hearing Examiner Pro Tem
15                                       City of Mount Vernon
16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25




     Rezone                                p. 5                          Recommendation


                                               Appendix A

                               Medical Center Rezone (PLAN25-0535)

                                   April 23, 2026 Hearing Transcript

  Note: This is a computer-generated transcript provided for informational purposes only. The
 reader should not take this document as 100% accurate or take offense at errors created by the
    limitations of the programming in transcribing speech. For those in need of an accurate
  rendition of the hearing testimony, a hearing recording can be acquired at the Mount Vernon
                                Development Services Department.

Examiner Terrell (35:33):
Okay. So in that case, I'm going to open the second hearing today. It is 1:40 on the 23rd of April, 2026. We
are here to hear about a rezone request application from Dr. Steve Johnson for Cascade Medical
Properties. This would allow for a rezone of three parcels from one implementing zone to another within
the comprehensive plan land use designation. I will enter exhibits one through five from the staff report
on page two. Is there another public comment that came in today? Is that the one you were talking about?

Planner Perkins (36:13):
Yes.

Examiner Terrell (36:15):
Okay. And can that be sent to me as well?

Planner Perkins (36:19):
Yes.

Examiner Terrell (36:20):
Thank you. Did that come in today?

Planner Perkins (36:22):
I came in late yesterday.

Examiner Terrell (36:24):
Late yesterday. Is the commenter here?

Planner Perkins (36:29):
It was the tribe basically saying they don't have a comment, so no.

Examiner Terrell (36:33):
Okay. So Exhibit six is just the tribal comment. I love when they send a comment that says we don't have
a comment, but at least you know they got it.



                                                                                              Page 1 of 7


Planner Perkins (36:43):
Yeah. It showed that they're working on it.

Examiner Terrell (36:46):
Yeah. Okay. In that case, seeing no objection to the exhibits one through six being entered into the record,
we'll do the same thing where we swear folks in. I'm just going to assume ... Is this one continuous
recording?

Planner Perkins (37:00):
Yes.

Examiner Terrell (37:01):
All right. In that case, Rebecca, we'll just assume that you've already sworn in. And if you would like to
begin, then we'll go to the applicant and any members of the public who have questions, if there are any.
Okay. Thank you. Hi, Mr. Johnson.

Planner Perkins (37:28):
I'll just restate. I'm Rebecca Perkins, associate planner for the city of Mount Vernon. This project is for a
rezone of three properties from the professional office district into the residential office district. And this
is a non-project SEPA application. These properties are ... Or the zones are in the same comprehensive
plan designation. So we have three property numbers and three addresses off of Little Mountain Lane, all
owned by Cascade Medical Properties we have kind of showing where it is. I'll just state we called this the
Cascade Medical Properties Rezone instead of the little mountain lane rezone to avoid any potential
confusion with Little Mountain Park. I did not want anyone thinking we were rezoning the park or the area
surrounding the park.

Examiner Terrell (38:31):
That is fair.

Planner Perkins (38:36):
So Mount Vernon Municipal Code 1709010 contains a table listing zoning designations and the associated
comprehensive plan designations. They're consistent or associated with the table states that the
residential office/professional office designation of the subject site is consistent and associated with two
different zoning designations. And those are professional office district PO and residential office district
RO. And the primary difference between these zones is that RO allows for different types of residential
housing, which are not allowed in PO. So we go on in the staff report to mention residential housing
because that would be the primary reason for rezoning from PO to RO. So this permit is a rezone with
non-project SEPA review on three properties.
(39:39):
We had small exhibit list. We originally had three public comments. We do have that fourth one. There
are no existing structures or improvements. The surrounding land uses are offices, a school on the east
side, single family housing to the south, and then a church and single family housing to the west. We are
in the, I would say, the southwest quadrant of the city. Here we can see the sites. We have the school
over here to the east church and homes around here. And then these are all offices. The stoning map
shows all of this kind of dark salmon or red color is this PO district. The green is the public for the school


                                                                                                Page 2 of 7


and the church, and then the oranges are all different single family detached residential district zones.
And then this brownish color is multifamily residential.
(40:54):
And then this is an excellent area where the comprehensive plan designations are all in line with the actual
zoning where we have PORO in this area. We have public ... In the public zones, we have single family in
the single family zones, and we have multifamily and the multifamily zones. The chapters of Malvern
Municipal Code that we're looking at is our general administration of development regulations and
concurrency, as well as our zoning chapters of amendments and reclassifications, and then the RO
Residential Office District and PO Professional Office District Zoning. The commerce of plan goals,
objectives, and policies that we're looking at for this rezone are the overall land use goal number one as
being enhance the quality of life found in Mount Vernon as a place to live, work, and recreate. And
objective 1.1 is to balance residential, commercial, and industrial and public land uses within the city, and
then also goes in and says that the city should provide adequate capacity for projected residential growth
and provide enough commercial industrial uses to balance that out.
(42:14):
As these three lots have remained undeveloped since they were planted in 2003, which is around the time
when the others were developed, a rezone to a district that allows multifamily housing would be an effort
to rebalance that capacity for residential growth. It's kind of assumed that if we did need more of this
professional office, those properties would have been developed under this zone. The further goals,
objectives, and policies that we have listed out here are all dealing with housing, with enhanced and
improving quality of multifamily living throughout the city, and I'll allow a range of housing options,
achieve a mix of housing styles in Mount Vernon. This is kind of showing that we are not trying to have all
of the multifamily in one area of the city and all the single family and other. We'd like a mix. We don't
want to have ... We are okay with having multifamily in an area that has single family.
(43:18):
There are also ... What's not in here is a lot of state laws that are outright allowing multifamily in the single
family.

Examiner Terrell (43:29):
I know.

Planner Perkins (43:32):
We also are promoting infield development, compatible with abutting housing styles, and we have city
zoning standards and design standards that are meant to address some compatibility issues that can arise
from multifamily, but also to make them be attractive to the neighborhood and also the residents that
would be living into that, living there. They are not just for neighbors. And then we're also imagining what
development could be. There should not be all that different in scale to the surrounding uses, whether it
is smaller houses or larger buildings because the office structures and their parking layout definitely from
above look like they could be multifamily.
(44:31):
When actually built, they might be taller, but not all that different. We'll have to demonstrate provisions
for an environment that contributes to a high quality of life for future residents, and that's where our
design standards come in. And we also encourage info housing on vacant or underutilized parcels that
having adequate services ensure that in field development is compatible, surrounding neighborhoods.
And the site is underutilized and does have urban services being kind of in the middle of the city. And

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 7


again, we still will have design standards required to make sure that we have something that is compatible
with surrounding neighborhoods. So based on that, we've found that the proposed rezone would be
consistent with the city's comprehensive plan. We've got procedural requirements here of just showing
the noticing that went out.
(45:36):
SEPA told five days ago we did not receive a SEPA appeal. And then we just have a few findings for rezone.
So Vernon Municipal Code chapter 17.11 amendments and reclassifications contains the following criteria
that must be satisfied for a rezone. And then we've also provided our analysis. The hearing examiner will
consider this request and forward the recommendation to the city council for approval or disapproval at
a closed record public hearing. And the hearing examiner and the city council shall consider at minimum
the following criteria, which I will go over. Is this request compatible with the city's comprehensive plan
and development goals? This is in a comprehensive plan designation that is associated with two different
zoning designations, and this proposal is a change from one of those two to the other of the two. So it is
consistent with the comprehensive plan.
(46:47):
This rezone is intended to result in its currently vacant property being developed with residential housing,
which will insist in implementing the goals that we already went through. The second finding is our public
utilities, public facilities, and other services currently adequate to serve the proposed district. When we
get an actual project, the fire department will impose code requirements proposed for the proposed
development and the applicant will be required to pay fire impact fees to the city of Mount Vernon as
part of the development process. Development regulations related to parks and schools will be imposed
as part of the development review for any project specific proposals and the applicant will have to pay
appropriate parks and school impact fees as part of the building permit process for store water. During
the development process, the applicant will be required to demonstrate how the storm system will
provide quality and quantity controls to the entire impervious lot surface.
(47:56):
For water, water is provided through public utility district number one of Schedule County. The applicant
will be required to verify water availability for future development, and if there's any relocation,
extension, or connection of utilities that will be done at the owner's expense for sewer, the city of Mount
Vernon wastewater treatment plant has sufficient capacity to treat the affluent and relocation extension
or connection of utilities will be done at the owner's expense. And for streets, the applicant will be
required to complete traffic concurrency review prior to future development is approved, and that will
condition future development with necessary road and/or frontage improvements to ensure levels of
services are met. And then it will also be required to pay traffic impact fees based on the number of new
PMP hour traffic trips. So for all of the utilities, public facility and other services, whatever is proposed,
which we do not know yet, will have to meet all of these, and they will do so either by scaling it to the
correct size or by paying fees or relocating utilities.
(49:12):
And the third finding is just the reclassification to a PUD overlay zone is governed by a different chapter,
and this is not a PUD overlay zone. So it's in there, but it's not relevant to this request. The three public
comments that were received during the notice of application and initial CEPA DNS comment periods
were one from the Department of College stating that there's a known wetland on site, at least one.
Future development will have to go through the critical area process to identify, classify, and then mitigate
any effects on wetlands. Without knowing what and where anything will be, we can't further do anything




                                                                                               Page 4 of 7


with critical areas, so that's why that's moved to the future. Also, if it takes another 20 years for the
property to get developed, critical areas could be different then.

Examiner Terrell (50:18):
True. Stormwater too.

Planner Perkins (50:20):
Yeah.
(50:24):
The second one was more of a staff comment was just that garbage enclosures will need to be addressed
when development comes in. The third comment was from an abutting property, asking if there will be
any restrictions on those existing PO sites, if this is changed to RO. There are no specific limitations for
non-residential uses, abutting residential uses regarding parking or lighting. There are restrictions on the
hours of operations for changing message signs adjacent to residential use of their districts, but those
types of signs are not allowed in the PO zone. So that shouldn't be concerned where there is an additional
restriction is our landscaping code, chapter 179304A, section A requires type one landscape screening
between properties in the PO and RO district and all other zones, which includes RO. So there would be
additional landscape screening that would be required, but also could be waived by the owner of the
residential district.

Examiner Terrell (51:40):
What? And then the fourth one is the tribe has no comment. Yeah. But for ... I mean, in answer partially
that North Cascades, they are a legal use. And if what happens next to them changes, it doesn't change
their legal use and their legal permitting structure. Anything new that they do would be required to meet
up with those standards, provided they were feasible and appropriate. So you're right, changing message
and other things would have to come in, but we rezone all the time and the neighbors don't have to fix
their properties just because we rezoned. And usually they have legal non-conforming status of the use
or the structures.

Planner Perkins (52:22):
Yeah.

Examiner Terrell (52:24):
Okay.

Planner Perkins (52:25):
Yeah. So this is the fourth comment from the Stillaguamish Tribe of Indians saying that they are deferring
due to having other more proximate tribes. So we make the following findings as part of the
recommendation to the hearing examiner that the procedural requirements set forth in Mount Vernon
Municipal Code chapter 14.05 and 15.06 have been setified. The approval criteria for zones found in
MVMC 17.11 have been satisfied, and that the rezone will be conditioned such that compliance with the
city's development regulations will be satisfied. And so we recommend approval subject to the following
specific requirements that applicant will be required to comply with all of our code when they come

Examiner Terrell (53:26):


                                                                                              Page 5 of 7


In.
(53:27):
That's pretty standard. We often get rezone requests in that are not tied to a specific project in all project
reviews deferred until later. Understood. And it makes sense because some things do change at the state
level that we don't have control over and occasionally rezones come through. So I'm not at all concerned
about that. My main concern is that we're moving between two implementing zones for the same
comprehensive and land use designation. So unless there's some large adverse impact that probably
should have been considered at the critical time during the component update, usually the specific
impacts of those types of uses within that land use are either assumed or thought through as part of their
utilities and all that other stuff. So I don't see much of an issue with this one, but what I would like to do
is let the applicant speak. Mr. Johnson, do you want to speak?

Applicant Cammock (54:32):
I really don't have any comment. Sounds like Rebecca did an extensive job, and this just is only a rezone
request. So I'm happy to answer any questions if you have any.

Examiner Terrell (54:43):
Actually, I don't have ... I know, and you had to sit through the last one. Well, she asked some hard
questions. I don't actually have any questions on this. The staff report is extremely thorough. It's done
well, and we are literally moving from one implementing zone to another with a no project before us and
any project will have to be reviewed for all of its adverse impacts in public services at that time. So I don't
really have any questions about this one. I make a recommendation to the council and my
recommendation has to be in within the next 10 business days, and then the council can go from there,
but I'm not seeing any red flags at all. I can't roll from the bench. I'm not ruling at all since I'm making a
recommendation, but I don't see any reason to hold this up.

Applicant Johnson (55:28):
Thank you.

Examiner Terrell (55:29):
You're welcome. Is there anyone else who'd like to speak? I realize we have me, the city, and one other
person, but I'm giving you a job.

Planner Perkins (55:36):
It's the city.

Examiner Terrell (55:37):
I know. I looked up everybody's emails while you were talking just to see who was here. Briefly, the other
applicant came back in, but he went away again. Craig came for a minute. So yeah, I've got the better part
of two weeks to come up with a recommendation that is in large part going to look like a repeat of the
staff report for this one because the case law and the state law are pretty clear that we're going from one
implementing to another and there's no major adverse issues that we have identified. There's no reason
for me to say no. So thank you very much.

Applicant Johnson (56:13):


                                                                                                Page 6 of 7


Thank you. All

Examiner Terrell (56:15):
Right. Anything else for the good of the order? No. Okay. There is one for me. I need the exhibit links for
the first hearing. Okay.

Planner Perkins (56:22):
Yeah, I'll-

Examiner Terrell (56:24):
Yeah, I don't have the VA exhibits at all.

Planner Perkins (56:26):
Yeah.

Examiner Terrell (56:26):
Goodbye, sir. Thank you. So please forward that. And I got the binding site plan in my inbox already, and
I'm sorry that I didn't get that. He's like, "Can you do Mount Vernon hearings?" And then he sent me a
hearing and didn't tell me about it at all. On the happy side though, the dog's in his crate and he didn't cry
at all, so we're getting there. But yeah, I need that exhibit link so I can move forward with that one and I
suspect it'll be okay. Okay? Yeah. In that case, I close both hearings today. I look forward to receiving the
rest of the exhibits and as always, I enjoy working with Mount Vernon. Thank you. And thank you for pitch
hitting today. I know it's difficult. I've been in your seat as ... I'm more planner than hearing examiner in
part of my career and I know exactly where you're at there.

Examiner Terrell (57:16):
Last thing you want is the hearing examiner to go, "I have a list of questions." So I get it. I really do. Thank
you.




                                                                                                 Page 7 of 7


                                      EXHIBIT B
                       LEGAL DESCRIPTION AND ILLUSTRATIVE MAP:



Lot 1 and Lot 2 of Little Mountain Professional Park, Phase II, as per plat recorded as Auditors File No.
200305290080 except the East 36.5 feet as measured parallel with the East line of Lot 2.

And Lot 1 of City of Mount Vernon Short Plat MV-2-00 recorded under AF# 200112200109, being a
portion of Tract 3 of City of Mount Vernon Short Plat No. MV-3-83, AF# 8307290011 located in the
Northeast 1/4 of Section 29, Township 34 North, Range 4 East, W.M. also together with that portion of
Tract 3 of City of Mount Vernon Short Plat MV-03-83, approved July 26, 1983 and recorded July 28,
1983 as Auditors File No. 8307280011 in Volume 6 of Short Plats, page 74, records of Skagit County,
Washington; being a portion of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 29, Township 34 North, Range 4 East, W.M.,
more particularly described as follows: commencing at the Southeast corner of said Tract 3; thence North
87-49-50 West for 10.00 feet to the west line of the east 10 feet of said Tract 3; thence North 2-32-23 East
along said west line for 605.30 feet, to the true point of beginning; thence North 87-46-27 West along the
north line of said Tract 3 for 163.31 feet; thence North 36-22-46 West for 39.30 feet; thence North 87-46-
27 West for 92.65 feet; thence South 2-32-23 West for 96.83 feet; thence South 87-46-27 East for 280.64
feet; thence North 2-32-23 East for 66.12 feet to the true point of beginning.

Situate in Skagit County, Washington.


ILLUSTRATIVE MAP
The existing zoning designation of the subject site (colored blue) is Professional Office (P-O). The new
zoning designation is Residential Office (R-O).




Ordinance No. 3941                                                                               Page 4 of 4


                                                                        STAFF REPORT for
                                                                      REZONE APPLICATION


 STAFF REPORT SUMMARY & CONTENTS

 STAFF RECOMMENDATION:            Staff recommends APPROVAL of the Cascade Medical Properties Rezone application
                                  File No. PLAN23- 0535 subject to compliance with Mount Vernon Municipal Code
                                  Provisions.

 PROJECT SUMMARY:                 Proposed rezone on three parcels approximately 4 acres in size from a zoning
                                  designation of Professional Office District (P-O) to Residential Office District (R-O).
                                  This is a non-project action limited to the identified rezone.

 PROJECT ADDRESS:                 2010, 2011, and 2123 Little Mountain Lane

 PARCEL NUMBERS:                  P120440, P120439, and P28551

 APPLICANT/PROPERTY               Dr. Steve Johnson
 OWNER                            Cascade Medical Properties LLC
                                  PO Box 2427
                                  Mount Vernon, WA 98273
                                  360-708-3333

 VICINITY MAP:                                                                                  REPORT CONTENTS:
                                                                                                Staff Report Summary &
                                                                                                Contents
                                                                                                A. Project Description &
                                                                                                Location
                                                                                                B. Exhibit List

                                                                                                C. Existing Conditions &
                                                                                                Findings of Fact
                                                                                                D. Approval Criteria,
                                         Site
                                                                                                Findings, and Staff
                           Site                                                                 Analysis
                                                                                                E. Decision

                                                                                                F. Notes to the Applicant
                                                                                                and Parties of Record




Rezone Staff Report                                                                                                Page 1 of 11
File Number: PLAN25-0535


  A. PROJECT DESCRIPTION & LOCATION:
  PROJECT DESCRIPTION:           Proposed rezone on three parcels approximately 4 acres in size from a zoning
                                 designation of Professional Office District (P-O) to Residential Office District (R-O).
                                 This is a non-project action limited to the identified rezone.

                                 MVMC 17.09.010 contains a table listing (in part) Zoning Designations and the
                                 associated Comprehensive Plan designations they are consistent/associated with.
                                 This table states the Residential Office/Professional Office designation of the
                                 subject site is consistent/associated with two different zoning designations
                                 including: Professional Office District (P-O) and Residential Office District (R-O).

                                 The primary difference between the site’s existing P-O zone and the proposed R-
                                 O zone is that the R-O zone allows for different types of residential housing which
                                 are not allowed in the P-O zone.

  PERMITS:                       Rezone with non-project SEPA review

  ADDRESS:                       2010, 2011, and 2123 Little Mountain Lane

  PARCEL NUMBERS:                P120440, P120439, and P28551

  B. EXHIBIT LIST:
  The below-listed exhibits are hereby incorporated into this Staff Report as if they were fully set forth herein.

                                 1.        Master Land Use Application and Applicant’s Project Description

                                 2.        Site Plans from Applicant

                                 3.        SEPA Checklist

                                 4.        Notice of Application and Proposed SEPA Determination
                                           Final SEPA Determination with Notice of Public Hearing

                                 5.        Public Comments

  C. EXISTING CONDITIONS/FINDINGS OF FACT
  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN             Residential Office/ Professional          ZONING: Professional Office
  DESIGNATION:                   Office (RO or PO)

  ACREAGE:                       4-acres                      EXISTING STRUCTURES &         None
                                                              IMPROVEMENTS:

  SURROUNDING LAND USES:
                                 NORTH        Offices
                                 EAST         School
                                 SOUTH        Single Family Housing
                                 WEST         Church and Single-Family Housing

Rezone Staff Report                                                                                           Page 2 of 11
File Number: PLAN25-0535


  The following maps are included to supplement the existing conditions and findings of fact provided herein.




                                               Approx. Site
                                                Location




                             MAP 1.0 SITE LOCATION WITHIN CITY BOUNDARIES

                                                                  City Limits
                                                                  Urban Growth Boundaries

                                                              N   Not to Scale




Rezone Staff Report                                                                                      Page 3 of 11
File Number: PLAN25-0535


                             Site                         Site




                           MAP 3.0 AERIAL MAP
                                                    Approximate Site Boundaries
                                                    Not to Scale, Spring 2025
                                                N
                                                    Photography




Rezone Staff Report                                                           Page 4 of 11
File Number: PLAN25-0535


                           MAP 3.0 ZONING MAP OF SITE AND SURROUNDING AREAS



                                                               Approximate Site Boundaries

                                                          N
                                                               Not to Scale


Rezone Staff Report                                                                      Page 5 of 11
File Number: PLAN25-0535


                  MAP 4.0 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP OF SITE AND SURROUNDING AREAS



                                                          Approximate Site Boundaries

                                                     N
                                                          Not to Scale


Rezone Staff Report                                                                     Page 6 of 11
File Number: PLAN25-0535


    MVMC APPLICABLE TO THE                Title 14 Land Use and Development
    PROPOSED PROJECT:                              Chapter 14.05 Administration of Development Regulations
                                                   Chapter 14.10 Concurrency

                                          Title 17 Zoning
                                                   Chapter 17.111 Amendments and Reclassifications
                                                   Chapter 17.33 R-O Residential Office District
                                                   Chapter 17.36 P-O Professional Office District

    COMPREHENSIVE PLAN GOALS, OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES

    On September 14, 2016 the Mount Vernon City Council approved Ordinance 3690 adopting a revised and
    updated Comprehensive Plan for the City consistent with RCW 36.70A. The subject rezone has been found to
    be consistent with the City’s Comprehensive Plan.

    The following are Goals, Objectives and Policies that are specific to and support the requested redesignation:

    Land Use Goal 1 is to enhance the quality of life found in the City of Mount Vernon as a place to work, live and
    recreate. Objective 1.1 is to balance residential, commercial, industrial and public land uses within the City.
    Policy 1.1.3 indicates that annually the City should provide adequate capacity for the City’s projected residential
    growth and provide enough commercial/industrial areas within the City to balance residential growth. As these
    three lots have remained undeveloped since platted in 2003 while the others were developed, a rezone to a
    district that allows multifamily housing is an effort to rebalance capacity for residential growth.

    “Goal LU-51: Enhance and improve the quality of multi-family living environments throughout the City that
    provide areas that offer a larger range of housing options in the form of multi-family units.”

    “Housing Goal 1: Achieve a mix of housing styles in Mount Vernon that are appealing and affordable to a
    diversity of ages, incomes and cultural backgrounds.”

    Additional housing options will be available with approval of the requested amendment. The area is
    characterized by a mix of different residential uses and the proposal would allow for additional density in an
    area already characterized by many housing types. Furthermore, the City Comprehensive Plan recognizes that
    scattered multifamily use will exist within single family areas. The amendment will allow the development of a
    multi-family project in a mixed density neighborhood, thereby assisting in achieving a mix of housing styles.

    “Objective LU-51-1 Ensure that development in the multi-family residential designations are designed to
    provide quality homes and neighborhoods for residents and to mitigate impacts to existing neighborhoods as
    new ones develop.”

    “Objective HO-1.1 In City plans and zoning regulations, accommodate a variety of housing types, attractive and
    compatible in design, and available to all economic segments of the community.”

    “Objective HO-1.2 Promote infill housing that is compatible with abutting housing styles and with the character
    of the existing neighborhood.”

    The City’s zoning standards (e.g., building height) and design standards will ensure that the future multi-family
    development will be constructed with quality site and home design. Additionally, the abutting professional
    office structures and their parking at similar scales as would be expected from a future multifamily project.


Rezone Staff Report                                                                                         Page 7 of 11
File Number: PLAN25-0535


    “Policy LU-51.1.6 New multi-family residential projects should demonstrate provisions for an environment that
    contributes to a high quality of life for future residents, regardless of income level.”

    As a multi-family infill project subject to the City’s design standards, the amendments will provide for additional
    housing options available to lower income levels.

    “Policy HO-1.2.1 The City should encourage infill housing on vacant or underutilized parcels having adequate
    serves, and ensure that the infill development is compatible with surrounding neighborhoods.”

    The site is underutilized but has urban services. As a multi-family infill project subject to the City’s design
    standards, the amendments will provide for high quality housing that is compatible with the surrounding
    neighborhood.

    Based on the above, the subject rezone has been found to be consistent with the City’s Comprehensive Plan.


    PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS COMPLETED LEADING UP TO THIS STAFF RECOMMENDATION:

                    DATE          DESCRIPTION
                    12/17/2025    Permit Application Submitted
                    12/30/2025    Technically Incomplete Letter Issued
                    01/29/2025    Corrected Materials Received
                    02/03/2026    Technically Complete
                    02/26/2026    Notice of Application (NOA) and Proposed SEPA Determination Issued
                    03/12/2026    Comment Period Tolls for NOA and Proposed SEPA Determination
                    04/08/2026    Final SEPA Determination Issued, Notice of Hearing Issued
                    04/17/2026    SEPA Determination Appeal Period Tolls

    D. APPROVAL CRITERIA & STAFF ANALYSIS
    Mount Vernon Municipal Code Chapter 17.111, Amendments and Reclassifications contains the below listed
    criteria that that must be satisfied for the subject rezone. Following each of the listed criteria staff has provided
    their analysis and findings.

    The Hearing Examiner considers requests for reclassifications at a public hearing and forwards his
    recommendation to the Mount Vernon City Council for approval or disapproval at a closed record public
    hearing. The Hearing Examiner and the City Council shall consider, at a minimum, the following criteria
    provided in Chapter 17.111.070:

           1.      Is the request compatible with the City’s Comprehensive Plan and development goals?
                   The Comprehensive Plan designation of the site is Residential Office/Professional Office. This
                   comprehensive plan designation is associated with two different zoning designations within the
                   City. This rezone will change the site zoning from P-O to R-O; and both zones are
                   consistent/associated with the Residential Office/Professional Office comprehensive plan
                   designation of the site.

                   The rezone is intended to result in this currently vacant property being developed with residential
                   housing which will assist in implementing the Comprehensive Plan Goals, Objectives, and Policies
                   listed above in this staff report.

Rezone Staff Report                                                                                            Page 8 of 11
File Number: PLAN25-0535


           2.      Are public utilities, public facilities and other services currently adequate to serve the proposed
                   district?

                   Police and Fire
                   The Fire Department will impose code requirements for the proposed development and the
                   applicant will be required to pay fire impact fees to the City of Mount Vernon as part of the
                   building permit process.

                   Recreation/Schools
                   Development regulations related to Parks and Schools will be imposed as part of development
                   review for any project specific development proposals. The applicant will be required to pay
                   appropriate Parks and School impact fees to the City of Mount Vernon as part of the building
                   permit process.

                   Stormwater
                   The applicant will be required to demonstrate how the proposed storm system will provide
                   quality and quantity controls to the entire impervious lot surface of the proposed development.

                   Water
                   Water service in the City is provided through Public Utility District #1 (PUD) of Skagit County that
                   is a municipal corporation of the State of Washington, established to supply public utility service
                   in the form of potable water per RCW 54. The applicant will be required to verify water
                   availability for the future development with Skagit County Public Utility District. Any relocation,
                   extension or connection of utilities will be done at the owner’s expense.

                   Sewer
                   The City of Mount Vernon Wastewater Treatment Plant has sufficient capacity to treat the
                   effluent from the proposed development. Any relocation, extension or connection of utilities will
                   be done at the owner’s expense.

                   Streets
                   The Applicant will be required to complete Traffic Concurrency review before future development
                   is approved on the subject site. The Traffic Concurrency review will condition future development
                   with necessary road and/or frontage improvements to ensure levels-of-service are met with
                   future development.

                   The Applicant will also be required to pay traffic impact fees based on the number of new PM
                   peak hour traffic trips their future development generates.
           3.      A reclassification to a PUD overlay zone is governed by Chapter 17.69 MVMC, not this chapter.
                   A PUD overlay zone is not requested.

    Public    Three comments were received during the Notice of Application and Initial SEPA DNS comment
    Comments: periods:
                  1. Neil Molstad from the Department of Ecology confirming the presence of at least one
                      wetland on the subject property.
                      Critical area reconnaissance and all applicable critical area processes and regulations will
                      be required for any future development.



Rezone Staff Report                                                                                          Page 9 of 11
File Number: PLAN25-0535


                           2. Andy Hanson, City of Mount Vernon Public Works Department acknowledging the future
                              need to address garbage enclosures
                              This will be addressed at time of development.
                           3. Sheri Saldivar of North Cascade Eye Associates, an abutting property, enquiring if the
                              rezone will add any restrictions to the existing sites.
                              There are no specific limitations for non-residential uses abutting residential uses
                              regarding parking or lighting. MVMC 17.87 places restrictions to the hours of operation of
                              changing message center signs adjacent to residential uses or districts; however, these
                              signs are not allowed in the P-O zoning district.
                              MVMC 17.93.040(A) requires Type I landscape screening between properties in the P-O
                              and R-O district and all “R” zones, which includes R-O.



    E. STAFF RECOMMENDATION
          Staff makes the following findings as part of the recommendation to the Hearing Examiner:

              x   The procedural requirements set forth in MVMC 14.05 and 15.06 have been satisfied.
              x   The approval criteria for rezones found in MVMC 17.111 have been satisfied.
              x   The rezone will be conditioned such that compliance with the City’s development regulations will
                  be satisfied.

          Based on the above staff findings, staff recommends:

              1. That the subject Rezone associated with Mount Vernon File No. PLAN25-0535, be RECOMMENDED
                 FOR APPROVAL subject to the following specific requirements:

                  a. The applicant will be required to comply with all applicable provisions of the Mount Vernon
                     Municipal Code (MVMC).



    STAFF REPORT PREPARED BY:

    Rebecca Perkins                                                 04/19/2026
    Associate Planner                                               Date




    Rebecca S. Bradley-Lowell,
    Principal Planner




Rezone Staff Report                                                                                         Page 10 of 11
File Number: PLAN25-0535


    NOTES TO THE APPLICANT AND PARTIES OF RECORD
         1. This rezone application requires the City’s Hearing Examiner make a recommendation, at an open
            record public hearing that will be forwarded to the City Council, who will make a final decision at a
            closed record public hearing.
         2. The written recommendation for this project will be issued by the Hearing Examiner within 10 days
            after the date the record closes unless this timeframe is extended per MVMC 14.05.110(H)(2).
         3. The Hearing Examiner shall reconsider his/her recommendation if a written request is properly filed by
            the applicant or a party of record within 10 days of the date of the initial recommendation. A party
            wishing to file a request for reconsideration of the Hearing Examiner’s recommendation shall follow the
            process outlined within MVMC 14.05.110(H)(4). A copy of this portion of the MVMC can be obtained by
            contacting the Development Services Department; or it can be downloaded on the City’s web site at:
            http://www.mountvernonwa.gov




Rezone Staff Report                                                                                    Page 11 of 11
File Number: PLAN25-0535


  PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 1




Received
  01/29/2026


PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 1


PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 1


PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 1


                                                            Received                                           PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 1
                                                               12/17/2025




                                                                                                
                                                                                                         

                                                     
        .

 &"% &''"*&,"('"',#'%$(&'!"% '"!!'"'&#&#%")"!,"(%" #('%1
 ',%$(%&(&" "% &'&(&"(%&"'*%&,&' &'"+'%'!'!'"*&$(%. "%
 !'%)!''&%$(%,''*1

 ,"(%(&!!"%)%&"!""."%!,"'%',#"!"!2"&"'*%,"(*,+#%!&&(&1 ,"(
 "!"')"%.,"(!'"!&''#%"%'""#!!!(&!'&"% 1'"''%"*!"1
  "'!'%!'%"*&%&%" #'*'"% &1%"    !,"((& !'%!'+#"%%"% "-1

  " #''&"% "!!!,"(%*%"*&%(&!('2!)*%! !&%''+'"+&!'"'&
 "% 1 !&'.&)'&"% !'&"% ''"%)"%"'"!"!,"(%" #('%!      1
   !&)"!,"(%" #('%"(''"% !&)'!1&)&''"% &*!"'
 ('" ',&)/!&&(.*&'%"!,%"      !,"(#%",&)'!'%!'"'&"% 1

 ,"(%)!&&(&!"(''&"% "!''"(%"'8;5288;2;769"%% '3 "(!')%!"!*1")!*
 *""(%&''"%&"),"(%&&(1


 ༃   
 -                  Cascade Medical Properties/Dr. Steve Johnson

 -               PO Box 2427                           Mount Vernon               WA               98273
                                                                                 

   -                                  -360-708-3333                    -xdoctree@gmail.com


 ༄     
 -           2110, 2011, and 2123 Little Mountain Lane, Mount Vernon, WA

  
 12-         P 120439, P 120440, P 28551                           -4 acres total


 ༅   
       .      1 , ,  2    -
            LaVenture Road, Little Mountain Lane, and Olive Street




                                                                                              6 ";



                                                                                                                   PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 1

  
      .        -
           Little Mountain Lane is the main street that services all the parcels.


               
      
               



      .         0        -

                  
               ✔                 ✔ ✔ ✔
                                                                           
                                                                                             ✔ 
               
                      1   2 -

             
               




      .       ,,    +



             ✔
               / 
            
                     1   2 -
     A
       report
             by Soundview Consultants LLC in 2023 found no wetlands existed at either 2123 Little Mountain Lane
      (P28551)
                or 2011 Little Mountain Lane (P120439). One parcel, located at 2010 Little Mountain Lane
      (P120440)
                  may contain a category IV slope wetland of approximately 11,600 square feet (0.27 acre) on the
            
      southestern   and central portion of the property. A 50 foot buffer may be necessary, or there may be mitigation
            
      strategies  that could be exercised whenever a specific project is proposed for the site.

      .        347   +
               
                              ✔
                / 
               
                       1   2 -
             
               
               
               
               
      .                 -

      The parcels have no structures, but are adjacent to Little Mountain Professional Park which has 3 separate
      professional
                  office buildings on their own lots. Those structures are not a part of this application.
               
               
      
               
               
               


  
                                        


                                                                                          7";



                                                                                                        PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 1

  
 ༆    
      .             /   
               -
This property was originally developed as a professional park and early on, 3 medical office buildings were built.
     
However,   
          over the ensuing 15+ years, there has been no purchasing interest in the remaining three lots. This is
because the business  model for medicine, as well as many other professions, has changed as small to medium
sized group practices have been absorbed into hospitals or other larger organizations. In other words, the lots are
not economically viable under their current zoning classification.

The housing element of the City’s draft comprehensive plan identifies several goals, including: housing availability,
enhancing existing neighborhoods, jobs to housing balance & mixed use development, affordable and subsidized
housing and housing for vunerable populations. Given the location of these parcels in an existing residential area
with nearby schools, parks, businesses, offices and transit, the proposed rezone seems ideally situated to support
development that is consistent with these goals.

Additionally, the rezone request is consistent with Mount Vernon Municipal Code 17.111.070:
- The rezone would support the City’s comprehensive plan and development goals, as described above.
- Public utilities, public facilities and other services are currently adequate to support any development under the
proposed rezone.




                                  


                                                                               8";



                                                                                                    PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 1

  

      .      ,      
                 .
Yes.




             
      
             




                                  

                                                                           9";



                                                                                                                              PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 1


 ༇   
 
   '& #%')"%'','"!"*"'#"#!)")*',"(%##'"!&"''&"! %&!'*'"('!,"!'
 "!'%&'%&"%)"'"!&"'##%!"%!&&"'%!1%"%.'""*!!"% '"! " #'!
     (#'*!!*" #!&"%!)(&" !)")*',"(%#%"'1""*!#%&"!&%&&"'*'
 '&#%"'1'''"!#&&!&&%,'"!&(%" #'&"&(%0
 
  -                                   &''-                                  $##" !&''-
 
                                                                                        
None
                                             
                                                                                        
 
  -                                   &''-                                  $##" !&''-
 
                                                                                        
None
                                             
                                                                                        
 
 -                                   &''-                                  $##" !&''-
 
                                                                                                 360-424-9566/ses@semrau.com
Semrau Engineering and Surveying
                                             2118 Riverside Dr., Mount Vernon, W
                                               
 
                                                                                         
 
   -                              &''-                                  $##" !&''-
 
                                                                                        
None
                                             
                                                                                        
 
 -                                   &''-                                  $##" !&''-
 
                                                                                        
None
                                             
                                                                                        
 
 -                                &''-                                  $##" !&''-
 
                                                                                        
None
                                             
 
                                                                                         
 
     -                               &''-                                  $##" !&''-
 
                                                                                                360-708-3333/xdoctree@gmail.com
Cascade
       Medical Properties, LLC               PO
                                                Box 2427, Mount Vernon, WA
                                                                                        
 
  -                                      &''-                                  $##" !&''-
 
                                                                                        
                                             
                                                                                        
 
     
                                         




                                                                                                     :";



                                                                                           PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 1



  C A S C A D E M E D I C A L P R O P E R T I E S, L L C

             Received
                01/29/2026




January 28, 2026


TO:     Mount Vernon Planning Department


Re:     Reference # 25-1722
        Re-zone of Little Mountain Professional Park



Dear Mount Vernon Planning Department,


This is a rezoning request only and there is no specific project being proposed at this
time. Cascade Medical Properties LLC is requesting a change of all three parcels from
current "P-O" zoning to “R-0 Residential Office” which may allow for more flexible and
realistic development options.

We believe this rezone request is justified on the following basis:

This property was originally developed as a professional park and early on, 3 medical
office buildings were built. However, over the ensuing 15+ years, there has been no
purchasing interest in the remaining three lots. This is because the business model for
medicine, as well as many other professions, has changed as small to medium sized group
practices have been absorbed into hospitals or other larger organizations. In other words,
the lots are not economically viable under their current zoning classification.

The housing element of the Citys draft comprehensive plan identifies several goals,
including: housing availability, enhancing existing neighborhoods, jobs to housing
balance & mixed use development, affordable and subsidized housing, and housing for
vulnerable populations. Given the location of these parcels in an existing residential area
with nearby schools, parks, businesses, offices and transit, the proposed rezone seems
ideally situated to support development that is consistent with these goals.

Additionally, the rezone request is consistent with Mount Vernon Municipal Code
17.33.040(C) which could allow multifamily dwellings and support the Citys
comprehensive plan and development goals, as described above.

Public utilities, public facilities and other services are currently adequate to support any
development under the proposed rezone.


                              PO Box 2427, Mt. Vernon, WA 98273


                                         PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 1




Thank you for your time and attention.

Sincerely,



Steven H. Johnson
Cascade Medical Properties


                                                                                                                        PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 1


 ༈   
 
 ,',#!,"(%! "*,"(%&*%!(!%#!',"#%(%,''!"% '"!#%")"!'&"% .!!,'"!
 &(## !'' &.%'%(."%%'.!" #''"'&'","(%!"*1
                 


                                                
                                                                                                 
Dr. Steve Johnson                               November 22, 2025
 *%$)&" &                            ($&" !!)(
  




                                                                                               ;";



     Received                                                           PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 2
       1/16/2026




                   MOUNT VERNON PLANNING DEPARTMENT
                       EXISTING CONDITIONS PLAN
                           DECEMBER 16, 2025


REFERENCE # 25-1722
        Re: Re-zone of Little Mountain Professional Park

As referenced to earlier documents (Project Narrative and Re-zoning Application
Form), this site was originally developed and zoned for professional oﬃces and
is located on Little Mountain Lane which connects with LaVenture Avenue. The
owners are requesting a re-zone as outlined in our application documents.

The property contains three medical oﬃce buildings: Skagit Island Orthopedics,
Skagit Regional Health Little Mountain Pediatrics, and Cascadia Eye. There are
three remaining lots (Parcels: P 120439, P 120440, P 28551) totaling
approximately 4 acres that remain undeveloped. Complete utilities are available
to all these remaining parcels and these lots are mowed regularly.

Attached is a map outlining the location.

If you require further information, please contact Steven H. Johnson.

Thank you.




Steven H. Johnson
Cell: 360-708-3333


PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 2


         Received
           12/17/2025




                                     Legal Descriptions

                        Cascade Medical Properties LLC Rezone Request



P120440 (2010 Little Mountain Lane).

(1.5900 ac) LOT 2 OF LITTLE MOUNTAIN PROFESSIONAL PARK, PHASE II, AS PER PLAT
RECORDED AS AUDITORS FILE NO. 200305290080, RECORDS OF SKAGIT COUNTY,
WASHINGTON, EXCEPT THE EAST 36.5 FEET AS MEASURED PARALLEL WITH THE EAST
LINE OF LOT 2.



P120439 (2011 Little Mountain Lane)

(1.0400 ac) LOT 1 OF LITTLE MOUNTAIN PROFESSIONAL PARK, PHASE II, AS PER PLAT
RECORDED AS AUDITORS FILE NO. 200305290080, RECORDS OF SKAGIT COUNTY,
WASHINGTON.



P28551 (2123 Little Mountain Lane)

(1.5000 ac) LOT 1 OF CITY OF MOUNT VERNON SHORT PLAT MV-2-00 RECORDED UNDER
AF# 200112200109, BEING A PORTION OF TRACT 3 OF CITY OF MOUNT VERNON SHORT
PLAT NO. MV-3-83, AF# 8307290011 LOCATED IN THE NORTHEAST 1/4 OF SECTION 29,
TOWNSHIP 34 NORTH, RANGE 4 EAST, W.M. ALSO TOGETHER WITH THAT PORTION OF
TRACT 3 OF CITY OF MOUNT VERNON SHORT PLAT NO. MV-03-83, APPROVED JULY 26,
1983 AND RECORDED JULY 28, 1983 AS AUDITOR'S FILE NO. 8307280011 IN VOLUME 6 OF
SHORT PLATS, PAGE 74, RECORDS OF SKAGIT COUNTY, WASHINGTON; BEING A PORTION
OF THE NORTHEAST 1/4 OF SECTION 29, TOWNSHIP 34 NORTH, RANGE 4 EAST, W.M.,
MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: COMMENCING AT THE SOUTHEAST
CORNER OF SAID TRACT 3; THENCE NORTH 87-49-50 WEST FOR 10.00 FEET TO THE WEST
LINE OF THE EAST 10 FEET OF SAID TRACT 3; THENCE NORTH 2-32-23 EAST ALONG SAID
WEST LINE FOR 605.30 FEET, TO THE TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING; THENCE NORTH 87-46-
27 WEST ALONG THE NORTH LINE OF SAID TRACT 3 FOR 163.31 FEET; THENCE NORTH 36-
22-46 WEST FOR 39.30 FEET; THENCE NORTH 87-46-27 WEST FOR 92.65 FEET; THENCE
SOUTH 2-32-23 WEST FOR 96.83 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 87-46-27 EAST FOR 280.64 FEET;
THENCE NORTH 2-32-23 EAST FOR 66.12 FEET TO THE TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.


                                                                                                               PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3
                                                                                                       Received
                                                                                                          1/16/2026




                                  STATE ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT (SEPA)
                                         ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST


GENERAL INFORMATION & INSTRUCTIONS:

Applicant’s need to download the SEPA Instructions found on the City’s Permit Portal before trying to complete
this document. The SEPA Instructions outline the items the Applicant will need to have completed before trying to
complete this checklist.

The City and others use this checklist to help determine whether the environmental impacts of your proposal are
significant. This information is also helpful to determine if available avoidance, minimization or compensatory
mitigation measures will address the probable significant impacts or if an environmental impact statement will be
prepared to further analyze the proposal.

This environmental checklist asks you to describe information about your proposal. Each question is required to be
answered accurately and carefully. You may need to consult with an agency specialist or private consultant for
some questions. You may use “not applicable” or "does not apply" only when you can explain why it does not
apply and not when the answer is unknown. You may also attach or incorporate by reference additional studies
reports. Complete and accurate answers to these questions will help to avoid delays with the SEPA process as well
as later in the decision-making process.

The checklist questions apply to all parts of your proposal, even if you plan to do them over a period of time or on
different parcels of land. Attach any additional information that will help describe your proposal or its
environmental effects.

As allowed under State law the City has adjusted the format of this template to ensure Applicant’s are providing all
of the information needed to complete the SEPA process.

NON-PROJECT PROPOSALS:

For nonproject proposals (such as Rezones, Comprehensive Plan Amendments, and Code Amendments), complete
the applicable parts of sections A and B plus the SUPPLEMENTAL SHEET FOR NONPROJECT ACTIONS (part D). Please
completely answer all questions that apply and note that the words "project," "applicant," and "property or site"
should be read as "proposal," "proponent," and "affected geographic area," respectively.

FORMAT & SUBMITTAL OF THIS DOCUMENT:

After filling out this document Applicant’s need to save it as a PDF to a hard drive with the name SEPA Checklist. This is
important because this document will need to be uploaded into the City’s Permit Portal as a Native PDF – not a scanned
copy.

If you have questions about what is required please download the SEPA Checklist Instructions off of our Permit Portal, call
our department, or email one of our Permit Technicians at: 360-336-62314 or PermitTech@mountvernonwa.gov



SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                                       Page 1 of 18


                                                                                                     PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3



A. BACKGROUND [HELP]
1. Name of proposed project, if applicable:
Little Mountain Ln Rezone and Non-Project SEPA (REFERENCE-25-1722)
                                          CMV Staff: To avoid confusion with Little Mountain Park, this project is
                                          named Cascade Medical Properties Rezone
2. Name of applicant:
Cascade Medical Properties, LLC
Dr. Steve Johnson, member.

3. Address and phone number of applicant and contact person:
PO Box 2427
Mount Vernon, WA 98273
360-708-3333
4. Date checklist prepared:
January 12, 2026


5. Agency requesting checklist:
City of Mount Vernon Development Services


6. Proposed timing or schedule (including phasing, if applicable):
As soon as possible.


7. Do you have any plans for future additions, expansion, or further activity related to or connected with
this proposal? If yes, explain.
No. The properties are expected to be sold.


8. List any environmental information you know about that has been prepared, or will be prepared,
directly related to this proposal.
A report by Soundview Consultants LLC in 2023 found no wetlands existed at either 2123 Little Mountain
Lane (P28551) or 2011 Little Mountain Lane (P120439). One parcel, located at 2010 Little Mountain
Lane (P120440) may contain a category IV slope wetland of approximately 11,600 square feet (0.27 acre)
on the southestern and central portion of the property. A 50 foot buffer may be necessary, or there may
be mitigation strategies that could be exercised whenever a specific project is proposed for the site.


9. Do you know whether applications are pending for governmental approvals of other proposals
directly affecting the property covered by your proposal? If yes, explain.
None known.


10. List any government approvals or permits that will be needed for your proposal, if known.
The City of Mount Vernon must approve this rezone request.




SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                              Page 2 of 18


                                                                                                       PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3




11. Give brief, complete description of your proposal, including the proposed uses and the size of the
project and site. There are several questions later in this checklist that ask you to describe certain
aspects of your proposal. You do not need to repeat those answers on this page. (Lead agencies may
modify this form to include additional specific information on project description.)
This property was originally developed as a professional park and early on, 3 medical office buildings
were built.
However, over the ensuing 15+ years, there has been no purchasing interest in the remaining three lots.
This is because the business model for medicine, as well as many other professions, has changed as small
to medium sized group practices have been absorbed into hospitals or other larger organizations. In
other words, the lots are not economically viable under their current zoning classification.

The housing element of the City’s draft comprehensive plan identifies several goals, including: housing
availability, enhancing existing neighborhoods, jobs to housing balance & mixed use development,
affordable and subsidized housing and housing for vunerable populations. Given the location of these
parcels in an existing residential area with nearby schools, parks, businesses, offices and transit, the
proposed rezone seems ideally situated to support development that is consistent with these goals.

Additionally, the rezone request is consistent with Mount Vernon Municipal Code 17.111.070:
- The rezone would support the City’s comprehensive plan and development goals, as described above.
- Public utilities, public facilities and other services are currently adequate to support any development
under the proposed rezone.



12. Location of the proposal. Give sufficient information for a person to understand the precise location
of your proposed project, including a street address, if any, and section, township, and range, if known.
If a proposal would occur over a range of area, provide the range or boundaries of the site(s). Provide a
legal description, site plan, vicinity map, and topographic map, if reasonably available. While you should
submit any plans required by the agency, you are not required to duplicate maps or detailed plans
submitted with any permit applications related to this checklist.
2110, 2011, and 2123 Little Mountain Lane, Mount Vernon, WA
P 120439, P 120440, P 28551
All parcel information is public and available at the Skagit County Property Search website, including
legal descritpions.




SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                              Page 3 of 18


                                                                                                          PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3



B. ENVIRONMENTAL ELEMENTS [HELP]

1.    EARTH [HELP]

a. General description of the site:

Check One:

          ‫ ܈‬Flat
          ☐ Rolling
          ☐ Hilly
          ☐ Steep Slopes
          ☐ Mountainous
          ☐ Other – explain ‘other’ here:

b. What is the steepest slope on the site (approximate percent slope)?
Negligable. All three parcels are virtually flat.


c. What general types of soils are found on the site (for example, clay, sand, gravel, peat,
   muck)? If you know the classification of agricultural soils, specify them and note any agricultural land
   of long-term commercial significance and whether the proposal results in removing any of these soils.
Mixed soils. All three parcels have likely been graded, excavated or manipulated at some point in the
    past.


d. Are there surface indications or history of unstable soils in the immediate vicinity? If so,
   describe.
No.


e. Answer the questions and complete the table below to describe the purpose, type, total area, and
   approximate quantities and total affected area of any filling, excavation, and grading proposed.
   Indicate source of fill.

     Will filling, excavation and/or grading occur as part of the project:   ‫ ܆‬Yes   ‫ ܈‬No


      List the total cubic yards of fill proposed:                      0                         cubic yards



      List the total cubic yards of excavation proposed:                0                         cubic yards



      List the total cubic yards of grading proposed:                   0                         cubic yards




SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                                 Page 4 of 18


                                                                                                       PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3




     List the area (in s.f.) that will be disturbed with filling, excavation and/or grading:       0

      List the location fill material be imported from:

                N/A.

      Describe the purpose and type of filling, excavation and/or grading that is proposed:

                N/A.

      Provide other details regarding the filling, excavation and/or grading below:

                    N/A.

f. Could erosion occur as a result of clearing, construction, or use? If so, generally describe.

                    N/A.

g. About what percent of the site will be covered with impervious surfaces after project
  construction (for example, asphalt or buildings)?

                    N/A.

h. Proposed measures to reduce or control erosion, or other impacts to the earth, if any:

                    N/A.

2. AIR [HELP]

a. What types of emissions to the air would result from the proposal during construction, operation, and
   maintenance when the project is completed? If any, generally describe and give approximate
   quantities if known.

                    N/A.

b. Are there any off-site sources of emissions or odor that may affect your proposal? If so,
generally describe.

                    N/A.

c. Proposed measures to reduce or control emissions or other impacts to air, if any:

                    N/A.

3. WATER [HELP]

a. Surface Water: [help]


SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                             Page 5 of 18


                                                                                                       PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3


     1) Is there any surface water body on or in the immediate vicinity of the site (including
        year-round and seasonal streams, saltwater, lakes, ponds, wetlands)? If yes, describe type and
        provide names. If appropriate, state what stream or river it flows into.

          No.

     2) Will the project require any work over, in, or adjacent to (within 200 feet) the described
        waters? If yes, please describe and attach available plans.
         N/A.

     3) Estimate the amount of fill and dredge material that would be placed in or removed
        from surface water or wetlands and indicate the area of the site that would be affected.
        Indicate the source of fill material.

          N/A.

     4) Will the proposal require surface water withdrawals or diversions? Give general
        description, purpose, and approximate quantities if known.

        N/A.

     5) Does the proposal lie within a 100-year floodplain? If so, note location on the site plan.

          No.

     6) Does the proposal involve any discharges of waste materials to surface waters? If so,
        describe the type of waste and anticipated volume of discharge.
         N/A.


b. Ground Water: [help]

     1) Will groundwater be withdrawn from a well for drinking water or other purposes? If so, give a
        general description of the well, proposed uses and approximate quantities withdrawn from the
        well. Will water be discharged to groundwater? Give general description, purpose, and
        approximate quantities if known.

          N/A.

     2) Describe waste material that will be discharged into the ground from septic tanks or
        other sources, if any (for example: Domestic sewage; industrial, containing the
        following chemicals. . . ; agricultural; etc.). Describe the general size of the system, the
        number of such systems, the number of houses to be served (if applicable), or the number of
        animals or humans the system(s) are expected to serve.

         N/A.




SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                             Page 6 of 18


                                                                                                            PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3


c. Water runoff (including stormwater):

     1) Describe the source of runoff (including storm water) and method of collection
        and disposal, if any (include quantities, if known). Where will this water flow?
        Will this water flow into other waters? If so, describe.

          N/A.

     2) Could waste materials enter ground or surface waters? If so, generally describe.

        N/A.

     3) Does the proposal alter or otherwise affect drainage patterns in the vicinity of the site? If so,
        describe.

          N/A.

d. Proposed measures to reduce or control surface, ground, and runoff water, and drainage pattern
impacts, if any:
        N/A.

4. PLANTS [HELP]

a. Check the types of vegetation found on the site:

          ‫ ܆‬deciduous tree: alder, maple, aspen, other
          ‫ ܆‬evergreen tree: fir, cedar, pine, other
          ‫ ܆‬shrubs
          ‫ ܈‬grass
          ‫ ܆‬pasture
          ‫ ܆‬crop or grain
          ‫ ܆‬orchards, vineyards or other permanent crops.
          ‫ ܆‬wet soil plants: cattail, buttercup, bullrush, skunk cabbage, other
          ‫ ܆‬water plants: water lily, eelgrass, milfoil, other
          ‫ ܆‬other types of vegetation – list here:



b. What kind and amount of vegetation will be removed or altered?

          N/A.

c. List threatened and endangered species known to be on or near the site.

          None.




SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                                  Page 7 of 18


                                                                                                  PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3


d. Proposed landscaping, use of native plants, or other measures to preserve or enhance
    vegetation on the site, if any:

          N/A.

e. List all noxious weeds and invasive species known to be on or near the site.

          N/A.


5. ANIMALS [HELP]

a. List any birds and other animals which have been observed on or near the site or are known to be on
         or near the site.

          Examples include:

                    birds: hawk, heron, eagle, songbirds, other:
                    mammals: deer, bear, elk, beaver, other:
                    fish: bass, salmon, trout, herring, shellfish, other ________

          None.

b. List any threatened and endangered species known to be on or near the site.

          None.

c. Is the site part of a migration route? If so, explain.
                                                            CMV Staff: Site is located in the Pacific Flyway
          No.

d. Proposed measures to preserve or enhance wildlife, if any:

         N/A.

e. List any invasive animal species known to be on or near the site.

          None.

6. ENERGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES [HELP]

a. What kinds of energy (electric, natural gas, oil, wood stove, solar) will be used to meet
   the completed project's energy needs? Describe whether it will be used for heating,
   manufacturing, etc.

          N/A.




SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                          Page 8 of 18


                                                                                                      PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3


b. Would your project affect the potential use of solar energy by adjacent properties?
   If so, generally describe.

          No.

c. What kinds of energy conservation features are included in the plans of this proposal?
   List other proposed measures to reduce or control energy impacts, if any:

          N/A.

7. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH [HELP]

a. Are there any environmental health hazards, including exposure to toxic chemicals, risk
   of fire and explosion, spill, or hazardous waste, that could occur as a result of this proposal?
   If so, describe.

     1) Describe any known or possible contamination at the site from present or past uses.
        None known.

     2) Describe existing hazardous chemicals/conditions that might affect project development and
        design. This includes underground hazardous liquid and gas transmission pipelines located
        within the project area and in the vicinity.
        N/A.


     3) Describe any toxic or hazardous chemicals that might be stored, used, or produced during the
        project's development or construction, or at any time during the operating life of the project.
        N/A.


     4) Describe special emergency services that might be required.
        N/A.


     5) Proposed measures to reduce or control environmental health hazards, if any:
        N/A.


b. Noise

     1) What types of noise exist in the area which may affect your project (for example:
        traffic, equipment, operation, other)?
         N/A.


     2) What types and levels of noise would be created by or associated with the project on a
     short-term or a long-term basis (for example: traffic, construction, operation, other)? Indi-
     cate what hours noise would come from the site.
         N/A.



SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                            Page 9 of 18


                                                                                                        PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3




     3) Proposed measures to reduce or control noise impacts, if any:
         N/A.


8. LAND AND SHORELINE USE [HELP]

a. What is the current use of the site and adjacent properties? Will the proposal affect current land uses
    on nearby or adjacent properties? If so, describe.
        The parcels are currently undeveloped vacant lots. The rezone will have no know affects on
nearby or adjacent properties.


b. Has the project site been used as working farmlands or working forest lands? If so, describe. How
   much agricultural or forest land of long-term commercial significance will be converted to other uses
   as a result of the proposal, if any? If resource lands have not been designated, how many acres in
   farmland or forest land tax status will be converted to nonfarm or nonforest use?
   No.

   1) Will the proposal affect or be affected by surrounding working farm or forest land normal business
      operations, such as oversize equipment access, the application of pesticides, tilling, and
      harvesting? If so, how:
   No.


c. Describe any structures on the site.
There are none.


d. Will any structures be demolished? If so, what?
No.


e. What is the current zoning classification of the site?
P-O


f. What is the current comprehensive plan designation of the site?
RESIDENTIAL OFFICE/PROFESSIONAL OFFICE (RO or PO)


g. If applicable, what is the current shoreline master program designation of the site?
Unknown.


h. Has any part of the site been classified as a critical area by the city or county? If so, specify.
No.




SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                              Page 10 of 18


                                                                                                  PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3




i. Approximately how many people would reside or work in the completed project?
N/A.


j. Approximately how many people would the completed project displace?
None.


k. Proposed measures to avoid or reduce displacement impacts, if any:
N/A.


L. Proposed measures to ensure the proposal is compatible with existing and projected land
   uses and plans, if any:
N/A.


m. Proposed measures to reduce or control impacts to agricultural and forest lands of long-term
   commercial significance, if any:
N/A.

9. HOUSING [HELP]

a. Approximately how many units would be provided, if any? Indicate whether high, mid-
   dle, or low-income housing.
None. However, the requested zoning change would make housing possible on the site.


b. Approximately how many units, if any, would be eliminated? Indicate whether high,
   middle, or low-income housing.
None.


c. Proposed measures to reduce or control housing impacts, if any:
N/A.


10. AESTHETICS [HELP]
a. What is the tallest height of any proposed structure(s), not including antennas; what is
   the principal exterior building material(s) proposed?
N/A.


b. What views in the immediate vicinity would be altered or obstructed?
None.




SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                        Page 11 of 18


                                                                                                                 PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3




b. Proposed measures to reduce or control aesthetic impacts, if any:
   N/A.


11. LIGHT AND GLARE [HELP]

a. What type of light or glare will the proposal produce? What time of day would it mainly
   occur?
N/A.

b. Could light or glare from the finished project be a safety hazard or interfere with views?
N/A.


c. What existing off-site sources of light or glare may affect your proposal?
N/A.

d. Proposed measures to reduce or control light and glare impacts, if any:
N/A.


12. RECREATION [HELP]
a. What designated and informal recreational opportunities are in the immediate vicinity?
There are several parks and a school in the immediate surrounding area.


b. Would the proposed project displace any existing recreational uses? If so, describe.
No.


c. Proposed measures to reduce or control impacts on recreation, including recreation opportunities to
   be provided by the project or applicant, if any:
N/A.


13. HISTORIC AND CULTURAL PRESERVATION [HELP]

a. Are there any buildings, structures, or sites, located on or near the site that are over 45 years old
   listed in or eligible for listing in national, state, or local preservation registers ? If so, specifically
   describe.
No.


b. Are there any landmarks, features, or other evidence of Indian or historic use or occupation? This
   may include human burials or old cemeteries. Are there any material evidence, artifacts, or areas of
   cultural importance on or near the site? Please list any professional studies conducted at the site to
   identify such resources.
No.


SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                                       Page 12 of 18


                                                                                                        PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3




c. Describe the methods used to assess the potential impacts to cultural and historic resources on or
   near the project site. Examples include consultation with tribes and the department of archeology
   and historic preservation, archaeological surveys, historic maps, GIS data, etc.
None.


d. Proposed measures to avoid, minimize, or compensate for loss, changes to, and disturbance to
    resources. Please include plans for the above and any permits that may be required.
N/A.


14. TRANSPORTATION [HELP]

a. Identify public streets and highways serving the site or affected geographic area and describe
    proposed access to the existing street system. Show on site plans, if any.
LaVenture Road, Little Mountain Lane, and Olive Street. Little Mountain Ln is the main street that serves
all of the parcels.


b. Is the site or affected geographic area currently served by public transit? If so, generally describe. If
   not, what is the approximate distance to the nearest transit stop? Information on public transit is
   available from Skagit Transit, click HERE to be directed to their website.
Yes. Skagit transit has routes and stops nearby.


c. How many additional parking spaces would the completed project or non-project proposal have?
   How many would the project or proposal eliminate?
N/A.


d. Will the proposal require any new or improvements to existing roads, streets, pedestrian, bicycle or
    state transportation facilities, not including driveways? If so, generally describe (indicate whether
    public or private).

      (Note to Applicant’s from the City: the answer to this question is generally found in the Traffic Concurrency
      completed by the City for a project. Most projects need to have their Traffic Concurrency completed before an
      Applicant can answer this question)

N/A.



e. Will the project or proposal use (or occur in the immediate vicinity of) water, rail, or air
   transportation? If so, generally describe.

No.




SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                                Page 13 of 18


                                                                                                        PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3




f. How many vehicular trips per day would be generated by the completed project or proposal? If
    known, indicate when peak volumes would occur and what percentage of the volume would be
    trucks (such as commercial and nonpassenger vehicles). What data or transportation models were
    used to make these estimates?

      (Note to Applicant’s from the City: the answer to this question is generally found in the Traffic Concurrency
      completed by the City for a project. Most projects need to have their Traffic Concurrency completed before an
      Applicant can answer this question)


N/A.




g. Will the proposal interfere with, affect or be affected by the movement of agricultural and forest
   products on roads or streets in the area? If so, generally describe.

No.

h. Proposed measures to reduce or control transportation impacts, if any:
N/A.


15. PUBLIC SERVICES [HELP]

a. Would the project result in an increased need for public services (for example: fire protection, police
   protection, public transit, health care, schools, other)? If so, generally describe.

No.

b. Proposed measures to reduce or control direct impacts on public services, if any.

N/A.

16. UTILITIES [HELP]

a. Check the box indicating utilities currently available at the site:

   ‫ ܈‬electricity
   ‫ ܈‬natural gas
   ‫ ܈‬water
   ‫ ܈‬refuse service
   ‫ ܈‬telephone
   ‫ ܈‬sanitary sewer

SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                              Page 14 of 18


                                                                                                          PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3


   ‫ ܆‬septic system
   ‫ ܆‬other – explain ‘other’ here:


c. Complete the table below to describe the utilities that are proposed for the project, the utility
   providing the service,and the general construction activities on the site or in the immediate vicinity
   which might be needed.

                                                         SERVICE                     SIZE
          TYPE OF UTILITY         PROPOSED                                                          LINEAR FEET
                                                        PROVIDER               (in Dia. or Ac-ft)

  Sanitary Sewer                  ☐ Yes ☐ No    City of Mount Vernon

  Stormsewer Conveyance
                                  ☐ Yes ☐ No
  Lines

  Stromwater Treatment
                                  ☐ Yes ☐ No
  Facilities

  Stormwater Pond/Vault           ☐ Yes ☐ No                                                            NA

  Potable Water                   ☐ Yes ☐ No    Skagit PUD

  Fiber                           ☐ Yes ☐ No                                         NA                 NA

  Electricity                     ☐ Yes ☐ No    Puget Sound Energy                   NA                 NA

  Natural Gas                     ☐ Yes ☐ No    Cascade Natural Gas                  NA                 NA

  Cable                           ☐ Yes ☐ No                                         NA                 NA

  Other – List Here:              ☐ Yes ☐ No

  Other – List Here:              ☐ Yes ☐ No


Describe the general construction activities on the site or in the immediate vicinity necessary to
install/construct the above listed utilities:


N/A. This is a rezone request only, no project is proposed.




SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                                Page 15 of 18


PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3


                                                                                                           PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3



D. SUPPLEMENTAL SHEET FOR NONPROJECT ACTIONS [HELP]

(IT IS NOT NECESSARY TO USE THIS SHEET FOR PROJECT ACTIONS)

          Because these questions are very general, it may be helpful to read them in conjunction
          with the list of the elements of the environment.

          When answering these questions, be aware of the extent the proposal, or the types of
          activities likely to result from the proposal, would affect the item at a greater intensity or
          at a faster rate than if the proposal were not implemented. Respond briefly and in general
          terms.


1. How would the proposal be likely to increase discharge to water; emissions to air; pro-
   duction, storage, or release of toxic or hazardous substances; or production of noise?

N/A. No project proposed at this time, rezone request only. Any development that would eventually be
performed on the site would not have a substantially different impact than what is already allowed
under current zoning.

  Proposed measures to avoid or reduce such increases are:
N/A.

2. How would the proposal be likely to affect plants, animals, fish, or marine life?

N/A. No project proposed at this time, rezone request only. Any development that would eventually be
performed on the site would not have a substantially different impact than what is already allowed
under current zoning.


          Proposed measures to protect or conserve plants, animals, fish, or marine life are:

N/A.

3. How would the proposal be likely to deplete energy or natural resources?

N/A. No project proposed at this time, rezone request only. Any development that would eventually be
performed on the site would not have a substantially different impact than what is already allowed
under current zoning.


          Proposed measures to protect or conserve energy and natural resources are:

N/A.

4. How would the proposal be likely to use or affect environmentally sensitive areas or
   areas designated (or eligible or under study) for governmental protection; such as parks,
   wilderness, wild and scenic rivers, threatened or endangered species habitat, historic or
   cultural sites, wetlands, floodplains, or prime farmlands?


SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                                 Page 17 of 18


                                                                                                       PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 3




N/A. No project proposed at this time, rezone request only. Any development that would eventually be
performed on the site would not have a substantially different impact than what is already allowed
under current zoning.


          Proposed measures to protect such resources or to avoid or reduce impacts are:

N/A.




5. How would the proposal be likely to affect land and shoreline use, including whether it
       would allow or encourage land or shoreline uses incompatible with existing plans?

N/A. No project proposed at this time, rezone request only. Any development that would eventually be
performed on the site would not have a substantially different impact than what is already allowed
under current zoning.
                                                                               CMV Staff: Site is not within a
                                                                               shoreline area

          Proposed measures to avoid or reduce shoreline and land use impacts are:

N/A.

6. How would the proposal be likely to increase demands on transportation or public
   services and utilities?

N/A. No project proposed at this time, rezone request only. Any development that would eventually be
performed on the site would not have a substantially different impact than what is already allowed
under current zoning.


          Proposed measures to reduce or respond to such demand(s) are:
                                                                              CMV Staff: When a project is
                                                                              proposed, this will be evaluated
N/A.
                                                                              through Traffic Concurrency review.

7. Identify, if possible, whether the proposal may conflict with local, state, or federal laws or
   requirements for the protection of the environment.

The rezone request is not in conflict with any laws or requirements.




SEPA Checklist for Mount Vernon                                                                             Page 18 of 18


                                                                                                       PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 4




                           NOTICE OF APPLICATION & PROPOSED OPTIONAL
                            DETERMINATION OF NON-SIGNIFICANCE (DNS)
 PUBLIC COMMENTS ACCEPTED:                      02/26/2025         to    03/12/2025           at 4:30 pm

 APPLICATION NAME & NUMBER:                     Cascade Medical Properties Rezone PLAN25-0535

 SEPA ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW & ISSUANCE OF AN OPTIONAL DETERMINATION OF NON-SIGNIFICANCE
 (DNS): The City has reviewed the proposed project for probable adverse environmental impacts and expects to
 issue a Determination of Non-significance (DNS). This determination is based on the following findings and
 conclusions:

      x   The City (who is the lead agency) has determined that the requirements for environmental analysis,
          protection, and mitigation measures have been adequately addressed with the City’s existing
          development regulations and comprehensive plan adopted under chapter 36.70A RCW, and in other
          applicable local, state, or federal laws or rules, as provided by RCW 43.21C.240 and WAC 197-11-158.
          Our agency will not require any additional mitigation measures under SEPA.

 As permitted under the WAC 197-11-355, the City of Mount Vernon is using the Optional DNS process to give
 notice that a DNS is likely to be issued. Comment periods for the project and the proposed DNS are integrated
 into a single comment period. There will be no comment period following the issuance of the Threshold
 Determination of Non-Significance (DNS). A 10-day appeal period will follow the issuance of this DNS. THIS
 MAY BE YOUR ONLY OPPORTUNITY TO COMMENT ON THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF THE PROPOSED
 PROJECT. Agencies, tribes, and the public are encouraged to review and comment on the proposed project and
 its probable environmental impacts. Comments must be submitted by the date noted in this document to the
 above-identified Lead Agency Contact.

 PROJECT DESCRIPTION: Proposed rezone on three parcels approximately 4 acres in size from a zoning
 designation of Professional Office District (P-O) to Residential Office District (R-O). This is a non-project action
 limited to the identified rezone.

 PROJECT LOCATION:
 The site addresses are 2010, 2011, and 2123 Little Mountain Lane, Mount Vernon, respectively described by the
 Skagit County Assessor as parcels P120440, P120439, and P28551. They are respectively located at the
 southwest and northwest end of northeast beginning of Little Mountain Lane, within a portion of the NE ¼ of
 Section 29, Township 34N, Range 04E, W.M., and is at latitude 48°24'42.9"N and longitude 122°18'55.1"W. The
 boundaries of the sites are approximately identified on the map below.

 APPLICANT/PROPERTY OWNER:                                         LEAD AGENCY CONTACT:
 Dr. Steve Johnson                                                 Rebecca Perkins, Associate Planner
 Cascade Medical Properties LLC                                    Development Services Department
 PO Box 2427                                                       910 Cleveland Avenue, Mount Vernon WA 98273
 Mount Vernon, WA 98273                                            360-336-6214
 360-708-3333




SEPA DNS                                                                                               Page 1 of 3
Cascade Medical Properties Rezone PLAN25-0535


                                                                                                  PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 4




                                                                                                     N


                                                       DETAILS:
 Permit Application      01/20/2026                Determination of                    02/03/2026
 Date:                                             Completeness Date:
 Permits/Review Required/Requested: Rezone with non-project SEPA review

 Other Permits that may be Required: For the subject rezone and non-project SEPA no further permits are
 likely to be required. However, when the Applicant wishes to develop the subject property, they could be
 required to submit the following permits: Project-Specific SEPA Checklist, Critical Area, Design Review,
 Conditional Use, Site Plan (17.90), Fill & Grade, Right-of-Way, Traffic Concurrency, Fire, Building, & Sign
 Permits, and other permits from applicable local, state and federal agencies.

                                                CONSISTENCY OVERVI EW:
 Zoning: P-O Professional Office Comprehensive Plan: Residential Office/Professional Office (RO or PO)

 Existing Environmental Documents/Studies that Evaluate the Proposed Project: Non-Project SEPA Checklist

 Development Regulations Used for Project Mitigation and Consistency: The project is subject to the City’s
 SEPA Code, the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Code, and other applicable local, state and federal regulations as
 appropriate.
SEPA DNS                                                                                         Page 2 of 3
Cascade Medical Properties Rezone PLAN25-0535


                                                                                                     PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 4




 Comments on the Notice of Application and Proposed Determination of Non-Significance (DNS) must be
 submitted, in writing, no later than March 12, 2026. Comments should be as specific as possible and those
 submitting comments are required to comply with the following:

      x   All comments must include: (1) your full name, (2) your mailing address, and (3) the name of the
          proposal you are commenting on.
      x   If you wish to submit comments electronically you must upload your comments into the city’s online
          permit portal because comments are NOT accepted via email. To upload comments into the City’s
          permit portal navigate to: https://ci-mountvernon-wa.smartgovcommunity.com/Public/Home, once
          on this page you must create a user account by clicking “Sign Up” located at the upper right corner of
          the webpage. Once you have created and verified your user account log into the system and click on
          “Go” in the My Portal box, and then on the next page that appears click on “Apply” in the Apply
          Online box. On the new page that appears under Step 1 select “Public Comments” and on Step 2
          select “Public Comments for Land Use Permits”
      x   Comments submitted on paper are required to be mailed to the address provided for the Staff Person
          listed within this notice.

 PUBLIC COMMENTS ARE NOT ACCEPTED BY THE DEPARTMENT THROUGH EMAIL. Items submitted not
 meeting the requirements of this section are considered as not being received by the city. Any person may
 comment on the application, receive notice, participate in hearing(s) if there are any, and request a copy of
 the decision once it is made. Final decisions on the permits described in this Notice can be appealed. To
 receive additional information regarding this project – including how, when, and the time limitations should
 you wish to submit an appeal - contact the Development Services Department and ask to become a party of
 record.

 DOCUMENT COPIES:
 The Environmental Checklist and associated technical reports, plans, and other materials are available for
 public viewing by following the directions below:

           1.   Navigate to: https://ci-mountvernon-wa.smartgovcommunity.com/Public/Home
           2.   Click on the brown “GO” link under the heading “Public Notices”
           3.   Accept the Disclaimer
           4.   Type the project number (PLAN25-0535) into the search bar at the top of the screen
           5.   Click on the project number below the search bar

 The project materials are also available by emailing the City at PermitTech@mountvernonwa.gov or calling
 (360) 336-6214 and requesting copies of these documents.

 RESPONSIBLE PERSON: Steve Sexton, Development Services Director (signature on file)

 ISSUED & PUBLISHED : February 26, 2026

 SENT TO: CORPS OF ENGINEERS, WA AGRICULTURE, DAHP, WA COMMERCE, WA CORRECTIONS, WA EFSEC,
 WDFW, WA HEALTH, DNR, STATE PARKS, PARKS COMMISSION, PSP, PSRC, WA DOT, DOE, DSHS, NW CLEAN
 AIR, SKAT, COUNTY PDS, COUNTY ASSESSOR, DIKE AND DRAINAGE DISTRICT, SCOG, PORT OF SKAGIT, MVSD,
 SVC, SKAGIT COOP, SWINOMISH, UPPER SKAGIT, SAMISH, SAUK-SUIATTLE, TULALIP, AND STILLAGUAMISH
 TRIBES, SKAGIT PUD, PSE, ZIPLY, CNG AND COMCAST




SEPA DNS                                                                                          Page 3 of 3
Cascade Medical Properties Rezone PLAN25-0535


PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 4


PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 4


                                                                                       PLAN25-0535 Exhibit 5


        Received
             03/02/2026




                                         ^ddK&t^,/E'dKE
                                  WZdDEdK&K>K'z
                                          EŽƌƚŚǁĞƐƚZĞŐŝŽŶKĨĨŝĐĞ
                          WKŽǆϯϯϬϯϭϲ͕ ^ŚŽƌĞůŝŶĞ͕ t ϵϴϭϯϯͲϵϳϭϲͻϮϬϲͲϱϵϰͲϬϬϬϬ


DĂƌĐŚϮ͕ϮϬϮϲ



ŝƚǇŽĨDŽƵŶƚsĞƌŶŽŶĞǀĞůŽƉŵĞŶƚ^ĞƌǀŝĐĞƐĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚ
ddE͗ZĞďĞĐĐĂWĞƌŬŝŶƐ
ϵϭϬůĞǀĞůĂŶĚǀĞŶƵĞ
DŽƵŶƚsĞƌŶŽŶ͕tϵϴϮϳϯ

ZĞ͗    ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚŽĨĐŽůŽŐǇŽŵŵĞŶƚƐʹ ĂƐĐĂĚĞDĞĚŝĐĂůWƌŽƉĞƌƚŝĞƐZĞǌŽŶĞW>EϮϱͲϬϱϯϱ

ĞĂƌZĞďĞĐĐĂWĞƌŬŝŶƐ͗

dŚĞĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚŽĨĐŽůŽŐǇ͛Ɛ^ŚŽƌĞůĂŶĚƐĂŶĚŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůƐƐŝƐƚĂŶĐĞ;^ͿWƌŽŐƌĂŵŚĂƐƚŚĞ
ĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐĐŽŵŵĞŶƚƐŽŶƚŚŝƐƉƌŽƉŽƐĞĚƌĞǌŽŶĞ͕ĨŽƌǇŽƵƌĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ͗

^ŚĂƐĐŽŶĨŝƌŵĞĚƚŚĞƉƌĞƐĞŶĐĞŽĨĂŶĂƉƉƌŽǆŝŵĂƚĞůǇϭϭ͕ϲϬϬƐƋƵĂƌĞĨŽŽƚĂƚĞŐŽƌǇ/sǁĞƚůĂŶĚ
ŽŶWĂƌĐĞůϭϮϬϰϰϬ͕ďĂƐĞĚŽŶĂ^ĞƉƚĞŵďĞƌϴ͕ϮϬϮϮ͕ǀŝƐŝƚƚŽƚŚĞƉĂƌĐĞů͘ŶǇĨƵƚƵƌĞƉĞƌŵŝƚ
ĂƉƉůŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƐĨŽƌƚŚŝƐƉĂƌĐĞůƐŚŽƵůĚƌĞĨĞƌĞŶĐĞƚŚĞƉƌĞƐĞŶĐĞŽĨƚŚĞǁĞƚůĂŶĚŽŶƚŚŝƐƉĂƌĐĞů͘

^ĂůƐŽƌĞƐĞƌǀĞƐƚŚĞƌŝŐŚƚƚŽƌĞƋƵĞƐƚŵĂƚĞƌŝĂůƐƌĞůĂƚĞĚƚŽƚŚĞƌĞƉŽƌƚĞĚĂďƐĞŶĐĞŽĨƌĞŐƵůĂƚĞĚ
ǁĞƚůĂŶĚŽŶWĂƌĐĞůƐϭϮϬϰϯϵĂŶĚϮϴϱϱϭĂŶĚͬŽƌĂƐŝƚĞǀŝƐŝƚƚŽƚŚĞƐĞƉĂƌĐĞůƐƚŽĐŽŶĨŝƌŵƚŚĞ
ĂďƐĞŶĐĞŽĨƌĞŐƵůĂƚĞĚǁĞƚůĂŶĚ͘

/ĨǇŽƵŚĂǀĞĂŶǇƋƵĞƐƚŝŽŶƐ͕ƉůĞĂƐĞĐŽŶƚĂĐƚEĞŝůDŽůƐƚĂĚ Ăƚ ŶĞŝů͘ŵŽůƐƚĂĚΛĞĐǇ͘ǁĂ͘ŐŽǀ Žƌ;ϰϮϱͿ
ϯϴϵͲϱϱϰϵ͘

^ŝŶĐĞƌĞůǇ͕




EĞŝůDŽůƐƚĂĚ
tĞƚůĂŶĚ^ƉĞĐŝĂůŝƐƚ͕EŽƌƚŚǁĞƐƚZĞŐŝŽŶKĨĨŝĐĞ
^ŚŽƌĞůĂŶĚƐĂŶĚŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůƐƐŝƐƚĂŶĐĞWƌŽŐƌĂŵ


                                           NEW BUSINESS ITEM: D




MEETING DATE: May 27, 2026
SUBJECT:          Presentation - Development Services Permitting Process
PRESENTER:        Steve Sexton

RECOMMENDED ACTION:
N/A

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:
Mount Vernon Building Official Tim Woodard will introduce to the City
Council the "Over-the-Counter" permit process he implemented.

APPLICABLE DEPARTMENTAL REVIEW



ATTACHMENTS:
None


                                                      NEW BUSINESS ITEM: E




DATE:         May 27, 2026

TO:           Mayor Donovan and City Council

FROM:         Doug Volesky, Finance Director

SUBJECT:      2026 BUDGET AMENDMENT

RECOMMENDED ACTION:

A request for Council to approve an ordinance to amend the 2026 Adopted City Budget.

INTRODUCTION/BACKGROUND:

The 2026 Budget Amendment includes the following:

  1. The Parks and Recreation Fund (F103) requires an increase of expenditures in the amount
     of $672,562. The City entered into an agreement with Northwest Playground Equipment
     for playground equipment for Hillcrest Park in the amount of $1,172,562. The 2026 budget
     was approved for only $500,000 because there wasn’t a definite answer on how much
     could be completed in 2026. The City will transfer $672,562 of 2026 General Fund (F001)
     property tax revenues into the Parks and Recreation Fund to offset the additional expense.
     This expenditure agrees with the use of the additional property tax created from the voter
     approved levy lid lift which was approved in 2025.

  2. The following Park’s Capital Funds need an increase in 2026 appropriations to carryover
     budgeted 2025 funds for projects that did not get completed until 2026.
        a. Parks Capital Projects Fund (F115) requires an increase in the amount of $20,000
             for Bonnie Rae Park Improvements and $12,000 for playground development,
             replacement and upgrades in various city parks.
        b. Little Mountain Parks Fund (F107) requires an increase in the amount of $72,928
             for the completion of the Little Mountain vault toilet, and $8,000 for new trail and
             educational signs.
        c. Park Impact Fees Fund (F311) requires an increase in the amount of $50,000 for
             Bonnie Rae Park improvements.


  3. The Fire Debt Service Fund (F210) requires an increase in budgeted appropriation in the
     amount of $105,667 to make the debt service payments for the financing of the new
     Ladder Truck. The Fire Capital Fund (F306) will need an increase in appropriation to
     transfer $105,667 to the Fire Debt Service Fund to fund the payments.

  4. The Affordable Housing Sales & Use Tax Fund – HB1590 (F124) requires an increase in
     budgeted appropriation in the amount of $343,441. In 2025 Skagit Community Action was
     awarded an Affordable Housing Grant from the City in the amount of $500,000. This was
     a 2025 budgeted expenditure. Their project was not fully completed in 2025 so this
     amendment is carrying over $343,441 into 2026 for current year expenditures.

  5. The City also requests the following 2026 Salary Schedule and position adjustments:
        a. Fire – eliminate the Office Specialist position, grade nr18 - $4,394.65 - $5,783.05
        b. Fire – eliminate the Nurse Educator position, grade nr29 - $7,516.33 - $9,890.98
        c. Fire – create EMS Captain/Admin, $11,100.79 - $11,552.28
        d. Police – Retitle Evidence Tech to Senior Evidence Tech – no change in salary range
        e. Police – Retitle Records Specialist to Evidence Tech – no change in salary range
        f. Police – Retitle Records Manager to Records Supervisor – no change in salary range
        g. Police – Parking Enforcement Officer moved from Protec, $3,805.00 - $5,007.12 to
            Police Non-Commissioned, $3,651.75 - $4,805.46.
        h. Wastewater – Requesting an additional Seasonal Employee - $16,800

FINDINGS/CONCLUSIONS:

As these increases in appropriations were not included in the adopted 2026 budget, these
budget amendments are necessary to complete and properly record these transactions. All
listed funds have available funding for these expenditures.


RECOMMENDATION:

City staff is requesting Council to approve ordinance 3942 to amend the 2026 Adopted

Budget. ATTACHED:

Ordinance No. 3942


                                ORDINANCE NO. 3942

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON, WASHINGTON, AMENDING
THE 2026 CITY BUDGET


WHEREAS, the Mount Vernon City Council adopted the 2026 annual budget on
November 19th, 2025, pursuant to Ordinance No. 3927; and

WHEREAS, the Parks and Recreation Fund, requires an increase in appropriated
expenditures of $672,562 to reflect the final cost of the Hillcrest Park playground
replacement; and

WHEREAS, the General Fund, requires a transfer of Property Tax revenues to the Parks
and Recreation Fund in the amount of $672,562 to reflect the payment of the Hillcrest
Park playground replacement; and

WHEREAS, the Parks Capital Fund, requires an increase in budgeted expense
appropriation of $20,000 to account for Bonnie Rae Park Improvements and $12,000 for
playground development, replacement and upgrades in various city parks. These are
projects that were included in the 2025 budget but will not be completed until 2026; and

WHEREAS, the Little Mountain Park Capital Fund, requires an increase in budgeted
expense appropriation of $72,928 to account for completion of the Little Mountain vault
toilet, and $8,000 for new trail and educational signs. These are projects that were
included in the 2025 budget but will not be completed until 2026; and

WHEREAS, the Parks Impact Fees Fund, requires an increase in budgeted expense
appropriation of $50,000 to account for improvements at Bonnie Rae Park. This project
was included in the 2025 budget but will not be completed until 2026; and

WHEREAS, the Fire Debt Service Fund, requires an increase in expenditure
appropriation in the amount of $105,667 to reflect debt service payments for the
financing of the new Ladder Truck; and

WHEREAS, the Fire Capital Fund requires an increase in expenditure appropriation in
the amount of $105,667 for a transfer to the Fire Debt Service Fund for funding to make
debt service payments for the financing of the new Ladder Truck; and

WHEREAS, the Affordable Housing Sales & Use Tax Fund – HB1590 (60%) requires an
expense appropriation of $343,441 to reflect payments to Skagit Community Action that
was awarded a 2025 Affordable Housing Grant from the City. The project will not be
completed until 2026; and

WHEREAS, The City also requests the following 2026 Salary Schedule and position
adjustments which do not require any increases to appropriated budgets:
       a. Fire Non-Represented – eliminate the Office Specialist position, grade nr18 -
          $4,394.65 - $5,783.05
       b. Fire Non-Represented – eliminate the Nurse Educator position, grade nr29 -
          $7,516.33 - $9,890.98
       c. Firefighter and Battalion Chief – create EMS Captain/Admin, $11,100.79 -
          $11,552.28


       d. Police Non-Commissioned – Retitle Evidence Tech to Senior Evidence Tech
          – no change in salary range
       e. Police Non-Commissioned – Retitle Records Specialist to Evidence Tech –
          no change in salary range
       f. Police Non-Commissioned – Retitle Records Manager to Records Supervisor
          – no change in salary range
       g. Police Non-Commissioned – Parking Enforcement Officer moved from
          Protec, $3,805.00 - $5,007.12 to Police Non-Commissioned, $3,651.75 -
          $4,805.46
       h. Wastewater is requesting an additional seasonal position funded with 2026
          budget savings - $16,800; and


WHEREAS, since these project costs were not included in the 2026 adopted budget, a
re-appropriation budget amendment is necessary to accommodate the project costs that
will be incurred in 2026; and

WHEREAS, all listed funds have available funds for the projects.



NOW THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON,
WASHINGTON, DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. In accordance with RCW 35A.33.120 (2), the 2026 budget for the City of
Mount Vernon, Washington, is hereby increased as follows:

       A. The Parks and Recreation Fund budgeted expenditures shall be increased by
          $672,562 to reflect the final cost of the Hillcrest Park playground
          replacement.

       B. The General Fund shall transfer $672,562 of Property Tax revenues to the
          Parks and Recreation Fund for final payment of the Hillcrest Park playground
          replacement.

       C. The Parks Capital Projects Fund budgeted expenditures shall be increased
          by $32,000 to carry forward 2025 budgeted amounts to reflect costs incurred
          for Bonnie Rae Park Improvements and for playground development,
          replacement and upgrades in various city parks.

       D. The Little Mountain Parks Fund expense appropriations should be increased
          by $80,928 to carry forward 2025 budgeted expenditures for the completion
          of the Little Mountain vault toilet, and for new trail and educational signs.

       E. The Park Impact Fees Fund budgeted expenditures shall be increased by
          $50,000 to carry forward 2025 budgeted amounts for Bonnie Rae Park
          Improvements.

       F. The Fire Capital Fund budgeted expenditures shall be increased by $105,667
          to reflect a transfer to the Fire Debt Service Fund for funding to make debt
          service payments for the financing of the new Ladder Truck.


       G. The Affordable Housing Sales & Use Tax Fund – HB1590 (60%) requires an
          expense appropriation of $343,441 to carry forward 2025 budgeted
          expenditures to account for payments to Skagit Community Action that was
          awarded a 2025 Affordable Housing Grant from the City.

Section 2.   The 2026 adopted salary schedules and positions shall be adjusted as
follows:

       a. Fire Non-Represented – eliminate the Office Specialist position, grade nr18 -
          $4,394.65 - $5,783.05
       b. Fire Non-Represented – eliminate the Nurse Educator position, grade nr29 -
          $7,516.33 - $9,890.98
       c. Firefighter and Battalion Chief – create EMS Captain/Admin, $11,100.79 -
          $11,552.28
       d. Police Non-Commissioned – Retitle Evidence Tech to Senior Evidence Tech
          – no change in salary range
       e. Police Non-Commissioned – Retitle Records Specialist to Evidence Tech –
          no change in salary range
       f. Police Non-Commissioned – Retitle Records Manager to Records Supervisor
          – no change in salary range
       g. Police Non-Commissioned – Parking Enforcement Officer moved from
          Protec, $3,805.00 - $5,007.12 to Police Non-Commissioned, $3,651.75 -
          $4,805.46
       h. Wastewater Utility – Increase position count for an additional seasonal
          employee – $16,800.



Section 3. Estimated resources for each fund of the City, and expenditures for all such
funds for the year ending December 31, 2026, are set forth in summary form below, and
are hereby appropriated for expenditure at the fund level during the year 2026.


Fund                                                              Estimated       Budgeted         Budgeted
 No.   Fund/Department Description                                Revenues      Expenditures     Fund Balance
001    General Fund
        City Council                         $      136,982
        Municipal Court                             902,230
        Mayor                                       525,672
        Finance                                   1,328,150
        City Attorney                             1,075,266
        Human Resources                           1,100,842
        General Facilities                        1,404,919
        Police Department                        15,399,864
        Fire Department                          11,712,745
        Public Works/Engineering                  1,229,980
        Development Services                      3,037,790
        TV 10 - Public Access Cable                 272,241
        CDBG Entitlement Grant                      441,365
        Information Services                      2,247,196
        Non-Department                            1,199,601
       Total General Fund                                     $    43,115,285   $   42,014,843   $   (1,100,442)
101    City Street Fund                                             2,357,921        2,585,973          228,052
103    Parks and Enrichment Services Fund                           4,524,235        4,449,529          (74,706)
104    Library Fund                                                 1,848,508        1,838,468         (10,040)
102    Arterial Street Fund                                         1,105,600        1,105,600             -
105    Paths and Trails Fund                                            3,724           50,000          46,276
106    Tourism Promotion Fund                                         263,000          284,500          21,500
107    Little Mtn Improvements Reserve                                 88,360          165,928          77,568
109    Crime Prevention Fund                                           28,750           25,000          (3,750)
110    Government Access Fund                                          44,000           79,836          35,836
112    Criminal Justice Assistance                                     68,090           63,000          (5,090)
113    Municipal Arts Fund                                                -                -               -
115    Parks Capital Improvements Reserve                                 300          207,000         206,700
117    TBD Fund                                                     2,646,000        2,379,000        (267,000)
118    Fiber Optic Fund                                               345,300          235,402        (109,898)
119    Critical Areas Enhancement Fund                                 75,000           30,000         (45,000)
120    Lincoln Commercial Block                                        74,800           50,100         (24,700)
121    American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA)                                    -            660,000         660,000
122    Affordable & Supportive Housing (HB1406)                        65,029           65,029             -
123    Afford Housing Sales & Use Tax (HB1590) - 40%                  470,000          703,160         233,160
124    Afford Housing Sales & Use Tax (HB1590) - 60%                  705,000        1,593,436         888,436
210    LTGO Fire Bond                                                 981,022          981,022             -
301    MV Library Commons Project                                   1,000,000        1,156,263         156,263
304    Capital Improvements Fund - REET I                             816,800          710,650        (106,150)
306    Fire Station Projects                                        1,944,945        1,319,395        (625,550)
311    Parks Impact Fees                                               25,000          180,000         155,000
312    Fire Impact Fees                                                35,000          110,000          75,000
313    Transportation Impact Fees                                     228,000              -          (228,000)
314    REET II - Streets                                              804,000          700,200        (103,800)
328    PW Facility Fund                                                   -                -               -
401    Wastewater Utility Fund                                     11,784,229       11,866,412           82,183
402    Solid Waste Utility Fund                                     8,526,970        8,214,662         (312,308)
403    Surfacewater Utility Fund                                    3,795,000        4,980,487        1,185,487
411    Sewer Facility Expansion                                       518,000          597,500           79,500
412    Sewer Capital Reserve                                           25,000        1,075,000        1,050,000
501    Equipment Rental Fund                                        4,573,578        3,428,579       (1,144,999)
502    Facility Renewal Fund                                          150,000           80,000          (70,000)
512    LEOFF I LT Healthcare Reserve                                   10,300           40,000           29,700
611    Firemen's Pension & Relief Fund                                 80,000           70,000          (10,000)
600    Managerial Funds                                               273,400          273,400              -

       Total 2026 All Funds                                   $    93,400,146   $   94,369,374   $     969,228


 Section 3. Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect and be in full force five (5)
                days after publication of a summary of this ordinance.


PASSED AND ADOPTED THIS 27th DAY OF May 2026.

SIGNED AND APPROVED THIS _____ DAY OF May 2026.




                                                     ____________________________
                                                     Peter Donovan, Mayor


                                             Attest: ____________________________
                                                     Becky Jensen, City Clerk
Approved as to form:

__________________________
Kevin Rogerson, City Attorney


Published: __________________________


                                                           NEW BUSINESS ITEM: F




DATE:           May 27, 2026

TO:             Mayor Donovan and City Council

FROM:           Doug Volesky, Finance Director

SUBJECT:        RESOLUTION TO DISSOLVE PETTY CASH FUNDS

RECOMMENDED ACTION:

A request for Council to approve a resolution to dissolve petty cash funds.

INTRODUCTION/BACKGROUND:

Operational processes are constantly changing and the need for some of the City’s petty cash
funds are no longer required. Eliminating petty cash funds is also risk-averse since there will be
less cash to reconcile and audit.

FINDINGS/CONCLUSIONS:

City staff would like to dissolve the following petty cash funds:
                               Finance                $400.00
                               Public Works            200.00
                               PW Engineering           25.00
                               PW Solid Waste           50.00
                               Fire                    100.00
                                 Total                $775.00

The cash proceeds from these funds will be deposited to the General Fund in the amount of $725.00 and
$50.00 to the Solid Waste Utility.


RECOMMENDATION:

City staff is requesting Council approve resolution 1100 to dissolve petty cash funds in the
amount of $775.00.

ATTACHED:

Resolution No. 1100


                                       RESOLUTION NO. 1100

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON, WASHINGTON, ELIMINATING
                                    PETTY CASH FUNDS



WHEREAS, the Mount Vernon City Council adopted Resolution No. 228 on July 10, 1985, increasing the
Fire Department’s petty cash fund to $100.00; and

WHEREAS, the Mount Vernon City Council adopted Resolution No. 331 on May 27, 1992, increasing the
Public Work’s petty cash fund to $200.00; and

WHEREAS, the Mount Vernon City Council adopted Resolution No. 337 on July 22, 1992, increasing the
Finance Department’s petty cash fund to $400.00; and

WHEREAS, the City has determined that there is no longer a need to maintain petty cash funds in some
departments; and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON, WASHINGTON, HEREBY
RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Dissolve the petty cash funds of the following departments in the following amounts:
                                Finance                  $400.00
                                Public Works              200.00
                                PW Engineering             25.00
                                PW Solid Waste             50.00
                                Fire                      100.00
                                  Total                  $775.00

Section 2. Deposit proceeds from the petty cash funds to the following funds in the following amounts:

                               General Fund            $725.00
                               Solid Waste Utility       50.00
                                Total                  $775.00

ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Mount Vernon on this 27th day of May 2026. Signed in
Authentication this ____ day of May 2026.



___________________________________
Peter Donovan, Mayor
                                                               Approved as to form:
Attest: _____________________________                          ______________________________
Becky Jensen, City Clerk                                       Kevin Rogerson, City Attorney


                                                      NEW BUSINESS ITEM: G




DATE:          May 27, 2026

TO:            Mayor Donovan and City Council

FROM:          Doug Volesky, Finance Director

SUBJECT:       RESOLUTION TO CREATE A NEW BANK ACCOUNT FOR EMS BILLING

RECOMMENDED ACTION:

A request for Council to approve a resolution to create a new bank account for EMS billing.

INTRODUCTION/BACKGROUND:

The City has entered into an agreement with Systems Design West as the new provider for EMS
billing services. Finance has the responsibility to capture individual transport revenue and
reconcile with our monthly bank reconciliation. Systems Design West suggested, and the City
agrees, that we open a separate bank account to capture all these individual payments. This will
simplify reconciliations of these electronic deposits. This new account would be at the City’s
current bank, Columbia Bank.


RECOMMENDATION:

City staff is requesting Council approve resolution 1101 to create a new bank account with
Columbia Bank for EMS billing purposes.

ATTACHED:

Resolution No. 1101


                                        RESOLUTION NO. 1101

 A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON, WASHINGTON, CREATING A
                       NEW BANK ACCOUNT FOR EMS BILLING SERVICES



WHEREAS, the City of Mount Vernon entered into an agreement with Systems Design West for EMS
billing services on March 25, 2026 ; and

WHEREAS, the City’s current bank is Columbia Bank; and

WHEREAS, the City identified a need for a separate bank account to help the reconciliation of electronic
payment transactions for individual transport receipts.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON, WASHINGTON, HEREBY
RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Create new bank account at Columbia Bank for EMS transport billing.


ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Mount Vernon on this 27th day of May 2026. Signed in
Authentication this ____ day of May 2026.



___________________________________
Peter Donovan, Mayor
                                                                Approved as to form:
Attest: _____________________________                           ______________________________
Becky Jensen, City Clerk                                        Kevin Rogerson, City Attorney
