                               ORDINANCE NO. 25-1219

             AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BLACK DIAMOND,
             WASHINGTON, RENEWING FOR AN ADDITIONAL SIX
             MONTHS THE MORATORIUM ON THE ACCEPTANCE,
             PROCESSING, AND/OR APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS
             FOR BUILDING AND LAND DEVELOPMENT PERMITS
             AND RELATED LAND USE DECISIONS FOR BATTERY
             ENERGY STORAGE FACILITIES WITHIN THE CITY OF
             BLACK DIAMOND; DECLARING AN EMERGENCY;
             PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY; AND PROVIDING THAT
             THE MORATORIUM WILL TAKE EFFECT IMMEDIATELY
             UPON PASSAGE.

       WHEREAS, within the express terms of the Optional Municipal Code and the
Growth Management Act, the Washington State Legislature has conferred upon the
governing bodies of Washington code cities the right to establish and adopt moratoria
related to land uses, as set forth in RCW 36.70A.390 and RCW 35A.63.220; and
         WHEREAS, the City has received interest and inquiries from a developer and
potential applicant for land use approvals and development permits relating to battery
energy storage facilities, in which questions have been posed regarding whether such
facilities are allowed under the City’s zoning code, as set forth in Title 18 of the Black
Diamond Municipal Code (BDMC); and
         WHEREAS, City staff have specifically been asked to issue a formal code
interpretation as to whether such a battery energy storage facility would be allowed as a
“utilities” use in the Community Commercial zoning district under Chapter 18.38, either
as a matter of right for underground utilities or as a conditional use for aboveground
utilities; and
         WHEREAS, the City’s development regulations, and specifically the definition of
“Utilities” in BDMC 18.100.710 and the permitted and conditional uses provided in BDMC
Chapter 18.38 (Community Commercial), Chapter 18.36 (Neighborhood Center), Chapter
18.32 (Medium Density Residential), and Chapter 18.30 (Single-Family Residential),
have not been updated to reflect recent technological changes and business models in
the energy storage and electric utility industry; and
       WHEREAS, applying these outdated regulations in Title 18 BDMC to new
technologies and business models could lead to approval of battery storage projects that
are undesirable, unsafe, and/or inconsistent with long-term planning goals and objectives
of the City, particularly when the existing regulations have not been reviewed and updated
for best practices nor reconsidered in light of technological changes and potential effects
such facilities have on surrounding areas and community resources; and




                                           -1-
        WHEREAS, the City Council has determined the following facts, and identified the
following unknown risks and economic factors, that may be relevant in assessing the
desirability of, and siting concerns associated with, battery energy storage facilities in the
City of Black Diamond:
          A. Battery energy storage systems are essentially rechargeable battery arrays
             that store excess energy when demand on the electrical grid is low and can
             feed power back into the system when demand is high (or energy
             production is low).
          B. The elements used in batteries can pose risks of explosion from overheating
             and of environmental contamination.
          C. Battery energy storage facilities present fire hazards that can take days or
             weeks to extinguish, requiring massive volumes of water and chemicals to
             bring under control, and constant monitoring by fire department personnel
             during active fire events.
          D. Battery energy storage facilities are sites where hazardous chemicals such
             as cyanide and hydrofluoric acid are present and thus pose the potential for
             discharge to surrounding property, air, and groundwater in the event of a
             fire.
          E. Battery energy storage facilities create potential for air quality hazards in
             the event of a fire.
          F. Battery energy storage facilities may produce noise and visual impacts that
             are not currently well understood by the City.
          G. Battery energy storage facilities may produce impacts to wildlife that are not
             currently well understood by the City.
          H. Battery energy storage facilities may be more appropriate for heavy
             industrial zones than commercial, neighborhood retail and office, or
             residential zones.
          I. Battery energy storage facilities may create additional strain on local
             emergency response agencies and their personnel.
          J. The Washington State Department of Ecology is beginning to compile
             guidance on battery energy storage facility siting that the City wishes to
             study before updating its zoning and other regulations applicable to battery
             energy storage facilities.
          K. The State Legislature adopted House Bill 1216 in 2023, and new
             Washington state regulations codified at WAC 51.54A.0322 and intended
             to minimize the risks of lithium-ion battery energy storage facilities through
             fire safety requirements and construction standards will take effect soon.
             The City desires to study these new laws and regulations to determine what
             effects they will have on local regulatory authority.
                                             -2-
          L. In October 2024, the King County Council adopted extensive revisions to
             the King County Code to allow battery energy storage facilities to be sited
             in large portions of unincorporated King County, subject to extensive
             regulatory conditions concerning proximity to other structures, strict
             construction standards, and additional safety and insurance requirements.
             The City desires to further analyze King County’s recent regulatory
             directives before finalizing updates to the City’s zoning regulations and
             official controls.
          M. Puget Sound Energy, which is conducting RFPs for third-party private
             entities to develop energy storage facilities connect via high-voltage
             transmission lines to PSE’s regional substations, has published safety and
             reliability requirements for such facilities that need to be explored and better
             understood before the City can determine whether to permit battery energy
             storage facilities in the City, and under what conditions.
          N. It appears that fiscal and/or economic development benefits that would flow
             to the City if battery energy storage facilities were permitted within the City
             are minimal, raising cost-benefit concerns among city residents and
             taxpayers. The City needs to further investigate and analyze potential
             economic impacts and tax revenues associated with such projects.
          O. Mountain View Fire & Rescue, which provides fire protection and
             emergency medical response services to the City of Black Diamond, may
             not have adequate staffing available to respond to intense and long-burning
             fires at battery energy storage facilities without compromising its ability to
             respond to other residential and commercial fire and medical emergencies
             elsewhere in the City.
       WHEREAS, due to the unique characteristics of battery energy storage facilities,
certain existing requirements in the code may not appropriately address or mitigate the
community impacts and risks such facilities may present; and
      WHEREAS, on February 15, 2024, pursuant to Ordinance No. 25-1205, the Black
Diamond City Council adopted a one-year moratorium on the acceptance, processing,
and/or approval of land use and development permit applications for battery energy
storage systems and facilities to be sited within the City; and
       WHEREAS, since the adoption of the moratorium through Ordinance No. 25-1205,
a public hearing was held on March 7, 2024 where many citizens spoke on BESS. The
Council has invited several presentations on BESS. On March 21, 2024, presentations
were heard from Aypa Power and James DeLay. On May 9, 2024, presentations were
given by the Energy Resilience & Emergency Management Office of the Department of
Commerce, Tetra Tech, and Aypa Power. On July 18, 2024, Puget Sound Energy
presented on BESS to the City Council. Then, on December 16, 2024, a few



                                            -3-
Councilmembers and city staff attended a presentation on BESS by the Fire Department
(MVFR).
         WHEREAS, the City Council’s preliminary inclination after reviewing the
information gathered to date has been to conclude that the risks of allowing battery energy
storage systems to be located in the City outweigh the identified benefits, the City Council
is nonetheless mindful of the role that battery energy storage may play in increasing the
reliability and capacity of the electrical grid for residential and commercial consumers in
the City, and therefore does not wish to reach a hasty or ill-informed decision; and
      WHEREAS, the City Council therefore desires additional time to study whether
such facilities can be safely built and operated within the City limits without unduly
jeopardizing fire and emergency response times or exposing the City and its resident to
unacceptable safety risks and financial costs; and
       WHEREAS, the City Council needs further opportunity to consider whether battery
energy storage system facilities should be allowed in the City either as a permitted or
conditional use, and if so, in which zone(s) and whether current zoning regulations in Title
18 and/or other official controls and development standards need to be updated to ensure
such facilities can be safely and appropriately sited within the City; and
        WHEREAS, processing applications for land use approvals, development permits,
and related applications or code interpretations for battery energy storage facilities under
existing zoning regulations and other official controls could potentially result in approvals
of undesirable and incompatible development until such time that the City has properly
reviewed its regulations and implemented any zoning code revisions or additional controls
deemed necessary and proper for the health, safety, and general welfare of the City and
its residents; and
       WHEREAS, the City is currently in the process of conducting its mandatory
periodic review of its Comprehensive Plan, which work is expected to be completed and
adopted by no later than June 30, 2025, prior to the anticipated expiration of this
moratorium; and
        WHEREAS, the Comprehensive Plan update work will include analysis and
recommendations for need zoning code amendments to implement the Land Use element
and Economic Development element of the Plan following its anticipated adoption in the
first half of 2025; and
         WHEREAS, it would be an efficient use of resources and an appropriate exercise
of its planning authority under the Growth Management Act and Chapter 35A.63 RCW for
the City to integrate an analysis of whether, and under what regulatory parameters,
battery energy storage facilities should be allowed uses within the City with the City’s
ongoing work on the Land Use chapter and other elements of the Comprehensive Plan
and development regulations; and



                                            -4-
         WHEREAS, the City Council has significant concerns about whether battery
energy storage facilities can be appropriately reviewed and analyzed under current
regulations and finds that unless the City acts immediately to preserve the status quo,
there are likely to be adverse impacts on the City and the health, safety, and welfare of
its citizens; and
       WHEREAS, pursuant to RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW 36.70A.390, the City may
renew a previously adopted moratorium for an additional six (6) months if it adopts
findings of fact supporting the need for the renewal and holds a subsequent public
hearing; and
       WHEREAS, to promote the public health, safety, and welfare, the City Council
deems it necessary and proper to renew the moratorium on land use and development
permit applications related to battery energy storage facilities for a period six months; and
       WHEREAS, the City Council deems it appropriate to hold a public hearing on
February 20, 2025, and may adopt additional findings following the conclusion of said
public hearing;
    NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLACK DIAMOND,
WASHINGTON, DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1. Preliminary Findings. The recitals set forth above are hereby
adopted as the City Council’s preliminary findings in support of renewing the moratorium
first imposed by Ordinance No. 24-1205. The City Council may, in its discretion, adopt
additional findings following the conclusion of the public hearing referenced in Section 5
below.
      Section 2. Moratorium Renewed. Pursuant to the provisions of Article 11,
Section 11 of the Washington State Constitution, RCW 35A.63.220, and RCW
36.70A.390, the one-year moratorium enacted pursuant to Ordinance No. 24-1205 is
hereby renewed on the acceptance, processing, and/or approval of applications for:
          a) building permits;
          b) clearing and grading permits;
          c) short plats;
          d) subdivisions;
          e) binding site plans;
          f) site plan reviews;
          g) conditional use permits;
          h) reasonable use exceptions;
          i) variances from Title 18 regulations; or
          j) deviations from any Black Diamond engineering design and construction
             standards or other technical codes
for any battery energy storage facility within the City or any other type of development
permit, approval, or code interpretation in connection with same.

                                            -5-
      Section 3. Effective Period for Moratorium. The moratorium adopted under
Ordinance 24-1205 and renewed under Section 2 of this ordinance shall remain in effect
for a period of six (6) months from the date this ordinance is passed and shall
automatically expire at the conclusion of that time period unless the same is further
extended as provided in RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW 36.70A.390, or unless terminated
sooner by the City Council.
       Section 4. Effect on Vested Rights. Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed
to extinguish, limit, or otherwise infringe on any permit applicant’s vested development
rights as defined by state law and City of Black Diamond regulations.
       Section 5. Public Hearing. Pursuant to RCW 35A.63.220 and RCW 36.70A.390,
the City Council will hold a public hearing at the City Council’s regular meeting at 7:00
p.m. on Thursday, February 20, 2025, or as soon thereafter as the business of the City
Council shall permit, in order to take public testimony on this renewal moratorium and to
consider adopting further findings.
        Section 6. Referral to Staff; Work Plan. City Staff and, as appropriate, the Black
Diamond Planning Commission, are hereby authorized and requested, as part of their
ongoing work on the 2024 Comprehensive Plan periodic update and review of current
zoning regulations, to continue studying the issues identified in this ordinance and to
develop recommendations for whether battery energy storage facilities should be allowed
uses within the City and, if so, what zoning regulations and public processes are needed
to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the community and ensure that such facilities
are developed in a manner that is compatible with the overall plan and vision for the City.
These recommendations shall be reviewed and considered by the Black Diamond City
Council for inclusion in the 2024 Comprehensive Plan update, Title 18 of the BDMC,
and/or other official controls of the City. City Staff is hereby requested to bring proposed
final regulations to the City Council for consideration and possible adoption by no later
than May 15, 2025. This work plan is subject to change upon subsequent direction of the
City Council following the public hearing referenced in Section 5 of this ordinance.
       Section 7. Severability. If any one or more section, subsection, or sentence of
this ordinance or its application to any person or circumstance is held to be
unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this ordinance or its application to other persons and circumstances.
       Section 8. Corrections by City Clerk or Code Reviser. Upon approval of the
City Attorney, the City Clerk and the code reviser are authorized to make necessary
corrections to this ordinance, including the correction of clerical errors; references to other
local, state or federal laws, codes, rules, or regulations; or ordinance numbering and
section/subsection numbering.
         Section 9. Declaration of Emergency and Effective Date. The City Council
hereby finds and declares that there is a significant potential for battery energy storage
facilities to create substantial adverse effects on the public health, safety, and welfare if

                                             -6-
not addressed by adequate and appropriate development regulations, and that, therefore,
an emergency exists which necessitates that this ordinance become effective
immediately in order to preserve the public health, safety, and welfare. Pursuant to
Matson v. Clark County Board of Commissioners, 79 Wn. App. 641, 904 P.2d 317 (1995),
non-exhaustive underlying facts necessary to support this emergency declaration are
included in the recitals above, all of which are adopted by reference as findings of fact as
if fully set forth herein. If approved by a majority-plus-one of the City Council, this
ordinance shall become effective immediately upon passage. If approved by only a simple
majority, this ordinance shall become effective five days after publication as provided by
law. The City Clerk shall publish a summary of this ordinance at the earliest possible
publication date.
    ADOPTED BY A MAJORITY-PLUS-ONE OF THE CITY COUNCIL AT A
REGULAR MEETING THEREOF ON THE 6TH DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2025.


                                                  CITY OF BLACK DIAMOND


                                                  ______________________________
                                                  Carol Benson, Mayor



ATTEST/AUTHENTICATED:


______________________________
Brenda L. Martinez, City Clerk


Approved as to form:


______________________________
David A. Linehan, City Attorney


Filed with the City Clerk:
Passed by the City Council:
Ordinance No. 25-2019
Date of Publication:
Effective Date:




                                            -7-
