Instrument # 22609310




                          BANNOCK COUNTY, STATE OF IDAHO
                             EMERGENCY MORATORIUM
                               ORDINANCE NO. 2026-02

AN ORDINANCE OF BANNOCK COUNTY, IDAHO, DECLARING A MORATORIUM
UPON THE ISSUANCE OF PERMITS FOR DATA CENTERS; DIRECTING
EFFORTS TO CREATE A PLAN TO ADDRESS THE PROBLEM; PROVIDING AN
EFFECTIVE DATE; AND DECLARING THE SUBORDINATION OF ALL
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND ORDERS IN CONFLICT HEREWITH.

        WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners (Board) is tasked with providing for the
health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Bannock County pursuant to Idaho Code
Section 31-714; and

       WHEREAS, one of the primary and essential services provided by Bannock County is the
power to enact zoning ordinances pursuant to Idaho Code Section 67-6509; and

         WHEREAS, for the purpose of this Moratorium, data centers are defined as a physical
facility or network of buildings whose primary purpose is devoted to the processing, storage, and
transmission of digital information through electronic equipment and supporting infrastructure.
They typically house networked computer servers, data storage drives, power systems, cooling
equipment, networking equipment and related infrastructure used to store, process, and distribute
massive amounts of digital data and applications; and

          WHEREAS, unregulated data centers present an imminent peril to the public health, safety,
and welfare of the citizens of Bannock County due to the large electric and water needs these
facilities typically have, which are not currently addressed by the County Land Use Ordinances; and

        WHEREAS, on April 13, 2026, the Director of the Department of Water Resources
declared a drought emergency for all Idaho counties which is currently in effect; and

        WHEREAS, Idaho Code Section 67-6523 authorizes the County to adopt emergency
moratoriums if the Board finds that there is an imminent peril to the public health, safety, and
welfare; and

        WHEREAS, the Board may, upon such finding, proceed to adopt a moratorium responding
thereto; and

        WHEREAS, the adoption of a moratorium may be accomplished upon abbreviated notice
of hearing as the Board deems practical; and


                                                                                            Page 1 of 3
Instrument # 22609310

        WHEREAS, pursuant to the requirements of Idaho law, notice of a hearing and an agenda
regarding whether to adopt a moratorium was properly posted; and

       WHEREAS, upon conducting said hearing, the Board has determined a moratorium is
necessary.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS OF BANNOCK COUNTY, STATE OF IDAHO, AS FOLLOWS:

   1. Based on the above recitals and the facts and circumstances set forth therein, the Board
      finds that there is an imminent peril to the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens
      of Bannock County posed by the continued unregulated placement of data centers.
      Specifically, the Board finds that the unregulated siting and operation of data centers will
      negatively impact the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Bannock County by
      posing perils to the following:
          a. Water quality;
          b. Environmental impact;
          c. View sheds;
          d. Decommission bonds;
          e. Electrical grid impact; and
          f. Impacts on the aquifer.

   2. The foregoing recitals, being a true and accurate description of an imminent peril to the
      public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Bannock County, a moratorium is hereby
      imposed upon the receipt, processing, and approval of applications for data centers. This
      moratorium shall be in place for a period of one hundred and eighty (180) days following
      adoption of this moratorium.

   3. This moratorium shall not apply to any permit that has already been issued, nor shall it apply
      to any permit for which any related application has been requested from, filed with, or issued
      by the Board. This limitation shall not prohibit Bannock County from exercising the control
      it is otherwise authorized to exercise over any such permit or construction.

   4. During the moratorium, the County and its personnel shall begin to work on a permanent
      solution to the problems addressed by this moratorium and to provide a plan within one
      hundred and eighty (180) days to abate the problems identified herein.

   5. This moratorium shall be in full force and effect immediately upon the date of its passage.

   6. This moratorium is hereby declared to be severable. If a portion hereof is declared invalid by
      a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and
      effect, and this ordinance shall be read to carry out the purposes of this moratorium before
      the declaration of partial invalidity.


                                                                                           Page 2 of 3
Instrument # 22609310

   7. If a conflict exists between this moratorium and any other ordinance, resolution, or order of
      the Board, this moratorium shall control until its expiration or termination by the Board.


DATED this 30th day of July , 2026.
BANNOCK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS




See original document for signature
Jeff Hough, Chairman




See original document for signature
Ernie Moser, Commissioner




______________________________                               See original document for signature
Ken Bullock, Commissioner                                    Jason Dixon, Clerk




                                                                                         Page 3 of 3
