SIG- bis LE _——
FRENCHTOWN CHARTER TOWNSHIP :
SPECIAL PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING A Pp Dp ] OV F D
April 1, 2026 ue

Item No. 1 Call to Order.
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.

Item No. 2 Pledge of Allegiance was observed.
Pledge of Allegiance was observed.

Item No. 3 Roll Call.

Roll call: Brian Dotson Bill VanDaele Don Abrams
Fred Calkins Chris Collins Ignazio Cuccia
Tim Stiff

Also present: Justin Sprague, OHM Advisors, Frenchtown Charter Township Planner
Kerry Bondy, Frenchtown Charter Township, Attorney
Gary Dahl, Frenchtown Charter Township, Building Official
Debbie Stolkey- Recording Secretary

37 interested citizens in person.
A quorum being present, Ignazio Cuccia called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM. This meeting was held
under the Open Meetings Act.

Item No. 4 Approval of Agenda.

Motion

Moved By: Chris Collins Supported By: Tim Stiff

A motion was made to approve the agenda as presented.
MUC

Item No. 5 Approval of Minutes of January 15, 2026 Meeting.

Motion
Moved By: Fred Calkins Supported By: Don Abrams
A motion was made to approve the minutes for the January 15, 2026, Planning Commission meeting.

MUC
Justin Sprague, OHM Advisors, gave a brief explanation of the resolution for moratorium on Data Center
Uses. Justin referenced Frenchtown Charter Township’s Zoning Ordinance, Section 2.05, Uses Not

Specifically Permitted, and noted that data center uses are not currently permitted and so are prohibited
and added an explanation as to why the Resolution is being proposed by the Township.

Frenchtown Charter Township, Special Planning Commission Meeting April 1, 2026 Page 1of4


Item No. 6 Public Comment on Non-agenda Items Only.

1.

oN oi

Kim Giarmo- Asked for transparency to residents. TV’s, Zoom to share with homebound
residents, as it is a violation of open meeting act.

Sarah Alcenius- Frenchtown, Concern to Special meeting posting not on home page of website.
Kurt Smith- Berlin Township- Data center concerns. Use of TV’s, Zoom for meetings.

Tom Marlow- Frenchtown Resident- Transparency to residents. Request for microphones during
meetings.

Hillary Venier- Frenchtown- Request for meeting packets available on website.

Samantha- Request for Zoom link for meetings.

Samara- Frenchtown-Transparency and zoom request.

Azriel Peters- Frenchtown- Water use concern of Data Centers.

Item No. 7 Public Hearing:

Proposed Interim/ Temporary Zoning Ordinance Amendment pursuant to the authority of
Frenchtown Charter Township Zoning Ordinance No. 300, Section 7.13 and the determinations and
finding of the Township Board in a Resolution duly adopted on March 10, 2026, establishing a
temporary moratorium as to Technology Uses, Data Center Uses and other High resource Demand
Uses that require significant amounts of electricity, water and other natural resources.

Motion

Moved by: Don Abrams Supported: Tim Stiff

To open the Public Hearing at 7:22 PM

MUC

Public Speakers:

iL

aw

Cor aH

24,
12)
135
14.
15.

Justin Sprague- OHM Advisors- Addressed the purpose of the proposed Moratorium to Data
Centers/ Technology Uses and other High Resource Uses. No application for Data Center in this
community currently.

Susan- Monroe Township- Asked who has signed NDA for Data Centers? Zoom request.
Philip Porada- Sumpter Township- Asked for maximum amount of time for Moratorium.
Hillary Venier- Supports Moratorium. Asked for Industrial Zone only and Special Use
requirement. Master Plan review.

Jill Schenavar- Praised Frenchtown Charter Township Planning Commission Board.

Kim Giarmo- Supports Moratorium.

Paul Nagorski- Frenchtown- Questioning Clean View building on Toll Road.

Kurt Smith- Suggestions on uses for Golf Course property at 1500 N. Dixie Hwy.

Shawna Farley- Supports Moratorium, asked for maximum length of time.

. Sarah Alcenius- Supports Moratorium, asks for transparency, and Draft Ordinance to be

available to public.

Joseph Hunt-Frenchtown- Concern with Data Centers.

Azriel Peters- Supports Moratorium.

Anonamous Citizen- Concerns with Data Centers.

Samantha- Concerns with Golf course property at 1500 N Dixie Hwy, wetlands.

Phillip Porada- Sumpter Township- Ordinance to require businesses to clean up property if they
close.

Frenchtown Charter Township, Special Planning Commission Meeting April 1, 2026 Page 2of 4


16. Heather Jondro- Frenchtown- Concerns with Data Center, potential decreased value in her
home.

17. Susan- Monroe Township- Suggested unification of neighboring municipalities.

18. Alana- Supports Moratorium

19. Kathleen Matkovic- Berlin Township- Supports Moratorium

20. Jay Peters- Frenchtown- Concerns with Data Centers

21. Patricia Cline- Frenchtown- Question on Letter of Intent for exclusivity with Cloverleaf.

22. Kerry Bondy- Frenchtown Charter Township Attorney- Term of moratorium, Our Zoning
Ordinance states a maximum of six months. Township would have the right to extend, if
necessary.

23. Carleen Stiff- Frenchtown- Appreciated the Frenchtown Newsletters mailed to residents.
Concerns with Data Centers.

24, Jackie- Frenchtown- Concerns with Data Centers. Supports Moratorium.

Motion
Moved By: Don Abrams Supported By: Bill VanDaele

To close the Public Hearing at 8:24 PM
MUC

Members discussed.
No further discussion.

Item No. 8 New Business/ Considerations/ Action Items

Recommendation to Township Board as to adoption of a proposed Interim/ Temporary Zoning
Ordinance Amendment pursuant to the authority of Frenchtown Charter Township Zoning Ordinance
No. 300, Section 7.13 and the determinations and finding of the Township Board in a Resolution duly
adopted on March 10, 2026, establishing a temporary moratorium as to Technology Uses, Data Center
Uses and other High Resource Demand Uses that require significant amounts of electricity, water or
other natural resources.

Motion

Motion to recommend to the Township Board to proceed with the Approval of the Zoning Ordinance
Amendment to establish a Moratorium on Technology Uses, Data Center Uses and other High Resource
Demand Uses that require significant amounts of electricity, water or other natural resources, as
presented to the Planning Commission, with the maximum time of six (6) months.

Moved By: Fred Calkins Supported By: Don Abrams
Roll Call Vote: Brian Dotson: Yes Bill VanDaele: Yes Don Abrams: Yes
Fred Calkins: Yes Chris Collins: Yes Ignazio Cuccia: Yes
Tim Stiff: Yes
Approved 7-0 MUC

Chris Collins presented to the Planning Commission a proposal to appoint two (2) Members of the
Planning Commission to join the Board Sub-Committee on Data Center Ordinance drafting.

Frenchtown Charter Township, Special Planning Commission Meeting April 1, 2026 Page 30f4


Members discussed.

Motion

A motion was made to appoint Ignazio Cuccia and Fred Calkins as representatives from the Planning
Commission Board to participate in the Ordinance Sub-Committee meetings, contingent on Township
Board approval.

Ignazio Cuccia and Fred Calkins accept.

Moved By: Chris Collins Supported By: Tim Stiff
MUC

Item No. 9 Old Business/ Considerations/ Action Items
Nothing to discuss.

Item No. 10 Other Business/ Discussion

Justin Sprague- OHM Advisors Frenchtown Charter Township Planner, discussed an error in a Legal
Notice for Special Land Use, provided to the Frenchtown Township Building Department for an
upcoming April 16, 2026, case. The Commission will have the ability to amend the Agenda at the April
16, 2026, meeting, and have it placed on the May 21, 2026, scheduled meeting.

Members discussed.
Don Abrams will be absent from the April 16, 2026, Planning Commission meeting.

Item No. 11 Board reports and Administrative Update

a) Administrative Review Update

b) Township Board Report- Nothing to report.

c) ZBA Report

d) Master Plan Update

e) Next Planning Commission Meeting: Thursday, April 16, 2026, at 7:00 PM.

Item No. 12 Public Comment
1. Heather Jondro- Asked about Legal notice she received for the upcoming Zoning Board of
Appeals meeting.
2. Hillary Venier- Requests packet information
3. Phillip Porada- Sumpter Township- Comment on Edge and Corporate Data Centers.

Item No. 13 Adjournment

Motion

Moved By: Bill VanDaele Supported By: Fred Calkins
A motion was made to adjourn the meeting at 8:51 PM.

MUC

Frenchtown Charter Township, Special Planning Commission Meeting April 1, 2026 Page 4of 4
