Minutes Approved 08/20/2026



                                          Lake Township

                                           July 16, 2026

                              Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees

                                    Held at Lake Township Hall

                              4988 W. Kinde Road, Caseville, MI 48725

Board of Trustees Meeting Called to Order at 5:00 P.M. by McCallum

Present – Kenny Kapa, Valerie McCallum, Nicole Collins, Dale Hartsell

Absent – Lisa Clinton

Approximately 11 in-person guests and 13 virtual guests

Agenda - A motion was offered by Collins, supported by Hartsell to approve the agenda with
correction under New Business regarding Siver removal. All in favor, motion carried.

June 18, 2026 and July 2, 2026 Board of Trustee Meeting Minutes – A motion was offered by
Collins and supported by Kapa to approve minutes. All in favor, motion carried.

Reports –

Supervisor – PC will be re – holding July 15 meeting on Monday, July 20, 2026 at 6:00 P.M. due
to noticing error. Numerous calls have been received regarding Sponge Moth sightings.
Spraying will probably be needed in 2027. Estimated cost is $100,000.00. The last spray was a
partial in 2023.

Treasurer – None

Clerk – Absent. Supervisor mentioned that the Clerk prepared a Tax Distribution Chart which is
on display in the Township Hall.

Trustees – None

Correspondence – Reviewed

Petitions/Public Comments –V. Rohner, road work, sponge moth; J. Mozdzen, removal of Siver;
Ann Krzeminski, sponge moths. D. Bradley, property overloaded with tents; J. Sturm, camping
ordinance; a guest, dredged materials on beach entrance.
Minutes Approved 08/20/2026



Old Business –

Electrical/Mechanical/Plumbing Inspections – Resolution #2026-21 (A Resolution To Amend
The Adopted Annual Budget For Fiscal Year 2026-27 To Provide Appropriations For
Administration And Enforcement Of The Michigan State Electrical, Mechanical, and Plumbing
Codes and Establishing Service Fees For the Same) was offered for Board consideration to
amend the annual budget for fiscal year 2026-27 to provide appropriations for administration
and enforcement of the Michigan electrical, mechanical, and plumbing codes and establishing
service fees for the same. Resolution #2026-21 was offered for adoption by Collins and
supported by Hartsell. Roll call vote followed, Kapa, McCallum, Collins, Hartsell, all in favor.
Resolution adopted.

Data Center Moratorium – Ordinance #2026-01, An Ordinance to Impose a Temporary
Moratorium Regarding New or Expanded Data Centers prepared by the Township attorney at
the Board’s request, was offered by Hartsell and supported by Collins. Roll call vote followed,
Hartsell, Collins, McCallum, Kapa, all in favor. Ordinance adopted.

New Business –

Trustee request to remove Siver – Trustee Kapa requested the Board to consider the removal
of Bob Siver from all Township positions. Reasons were his attitude displayed during meetings
and an email which he sent to Supervisor, Valerie McCallum. A motion to remove Siver was
offered by Kapa and supported by Hartsell, two ayes and two nays. Motion to remove failed.

Camping Ordinance – Over the 4th of July weekend McCallum received a call about tents and
noted that there was no port-a-john permit issued for that property. McCallum mentioned
another property owner had contacted the Zoning Administrator Kelly last year about having
about ten (10) tents on the property; the Zoning Administrator advised that that could not
happen. Even though the Planning Commission has been working on revising the temporary use
sections of the Zoning Ordinance, the township attorney has recommended that the township
should also consider a General Ordinance regarding camping and sent a draft from another
township. McCallum redlined certain portions by adding standards currently in the zoning
ordinance so there is no conflict with that as well as other changes. Kapa and Hartsell had not
reviewed it. Collins had reviewed it and had nothing to add. McCallum asked that the trustees
review it and get back with her within a week in order to send it back to our attorney to
prepare a draft for the August meeting.

First Quarter Budget Review- A motion was made by Collins and supported by Hartsell to move
$200.00 from the General Fund to the Building Inspector’s supplies to cover a shortage, all ayes.
Motion carried.
Minutes Approved 08/20/2026



Payment of Bills – A motion was made by Hartsell and supported by Collins to pay the monthly
bills, all ayes. Motion carried.

Public Comment – J. Sturm and J. Mozdzen camping ordinance; Rohner, questions during public
comments.

Adjournment – Motion by Hartsell and supported by Collins to adjourn, all ayes. Motion
carried.

Meeting was adjourned at 6:32 P.M.

Respectfully submitted by:

Maryanne Williams, Deputy Clerk
