oof Tandon
Chante Gounship of %: Jayson Rumball, Supervisor

Roselyn Blair, Clerk

395 Mill St. PO Box 929 Dana DePalma, Treasurer
. Robert Marshall, Trustee
Ortonville, MI 48462 Steve Unruh, Trustee
A ony Candiloro, Trustee
www. brandontownship.us Scoit Stangeland, Trustee

(248) 627-4918

RESOLUTION #424-26

RESOLUTION DECLARING TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON THE ACCEPTANCE OF
APPLICATIONS AND SITE PLAN REVIEW FOR ESTABLISHMENT
OF DATA CENTERS IN BRANDON TOWNSHIP

At a regular meeting of the Township Board of the Charter Township of Brandon, County of
Oakland, State of Michigan, held on May 4, 2026, at 7:00 p.m.

PRESENT: Candiloro, DePalma, Marshall, Stangeland, Unruh, Rumball
ABSENT: Blair

The following preamble and resolution were offered by Unruh and supported by Marshall.

1. WHEREAS, Brandon Township has adopted a zoning ordinance known as Chapter 46 of the
Brandon Township Code of Ordinances, as authorized by the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, and

2. WHEREAS, the Zoning Ordinance contains comprehensive regulations related to permitted
and special land uses in all zoning districts, and

3. WHEREAS, "Data Centers" as they have evolved under advances in technology are neither
defined nor regulated as permitted or special land use under the current terms of the zoning
ordinance, and

4. WHEREAS, modern data center facilities can have a significant impact on infrastructure,
including demand on electrical power, water supply, telecommunications networks, and
transportation systems, as well as potential impacts on surrounding land uses, natural resources,
public services, and the character of the community, and

5. WHEREAS, the scale, scope and environmental impact of modern data centers, particularly
the so called hyper-scale data centers, necessitate further review and study by the Township, and
thereafter implementation of appropriate revisions to the zoning ordinance, to ensure these uses are
compatible with surrounding land uses, and do not have substantial negative impacts on the
environment, public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens, and

6. WHEREAS, members of this board and the public have expressed concerns about quality-of-
life impacts, including potential increases in utility costs, strain on local surface and ground water
supplies, air quality and noise disruption near residential areas; and

7. WHEREAS, on April 14 2026 the Brandon Township planning commission, which has the
obligation for reviewing and evaluating land uses under the standards set forth in the zoning


ordinance, unanimously agreed to recommend that the Township Board implement a one year
moratorium on data center projects for the purpose of bringing the standards for modern data
centers up to date; and

8. WHEREAS, the township has a legitimate public interest in assessing the regulation of the
establishment and use of data centers and implementing amendments to the zoning ordinance to
ensure a consistent, cohesive, and sensible policy with regard to modern data centers, and

9, WHEREAS, a temporary moratorium will allow the township and its consultants to review and
update its zoning ordinance, as applicable, to address environmental impacts, including water,
energy, noise and light pollution, and to create regulations for these facilities, focusing on
community well-being, buffering, impact on infrastructure, and responsible planning, and

10. WHEREAS, The Township does not currently have any applications pending for establishment
of data centers and the Board has determined it is preferential at this time to temporarily suspend
acceptance and processing of applications for data center facilities while appropriate regulations,
standards, and definitions can be developed through a comprehensive public process involving
members of the Planning Commission and the Board; along with public input.

NOW THEREFORE,

BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED that the board of Trustees of the Charter Township of
Brandon hereby declares a moratorium on the acceptance of any applications, preliminary or
otherwise, for permit to construct or develop any data center at any location in the township for a
period 180 days from the effective date of this Resolution, and reserves the right to extend such
moratorium for an additional 180 days if this board determines that such extension is necessary to
accomplish the purposes described above. During such moratorium the township planning
commission, this board, and township consultants shall take such steps as necessary to determine
appropriate definitions, standards and conditions that should be adopted in the township's zoning
and other ordinances to properly deal with such use,

ITIS HEREBY FURTHER RESOLVED for purposes of this moratorium, the term "data
center" means a building or group of buildings used for the centralized storage, management,
processing and transmission of digital information, typically containing computer servers, data
storage systems, telecommunications equipment, power distribution systems, cooling and
ventilation systems, uninterruptible power supplies, back-up generators, and associated support
infrastructure. The term includes colocation centers and cloud computing facilities, hyper
computing facilities, and similar high-intensity information technology operations. The term does
not include small server rooms, IT closets, or similar equipment rooms that are clearly accessory
and subordinate to another lawful principal use.

IT IS HEREBY FURTHER RESOLVED that the township planning commission shall
forthwith consider an amendment to Article I of the zoning ordinance to properly define the term
"Data Center" as it is to be incorporated into the zoning ordinance for future reference. In preparing
its recommendation for such definition the planning commission may adopt the above definition
verbatim or initiate its own definition as it determines to be appropriate.


IT IS HEREBY FURTHER ORDERED that, notwithstanding the absence of current
applications for data centers, an owner of real property within the township who believes that the
restrictions imposed by this Resolution are so severe as to preclude all viable economic use of such
property, in likely violation of state or federal law, may request, in writing filed with the township
clerk, a hearing before this Board to present evidence materially demonstrating such violation and
requesting a full or partial waiver of these restrictions. A petition filed not less than 15 days prior to
aregular meeting of this Board shall be heard at that meeting. The Board may render its decision
at that hearing or defer such decision to the next regular meeting.

Roll Call Vote: AYES: Stangeland, Unruh, Candiloro, DePalma, Marshall, Rumball

NAYS: None

ABSENT: Blair

Jayson Ruimbatl Roselyn Blair
Brandon Township Supervisor Brandon Township Clerk

I, Roselyn Blair, duly elected Clerk of the Charter Township of Brandon, hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
and correct copy of a resolution approved by a majority of the Brandon Township Board of Trustees at a regular

meeting held on May 4, 2026. Wei

Roselyn Blair
Brandon Township Clerk

