Hayes Township Data Center Advisory Group

Table of Contents’.

Introduction - 2

Summary and ordinance recommendations - 13


|. INTRODUCTION

The data center work advisory group was created to gather information and assess the potential
for and the impact of the establishment of a Large/Hyper scale data center (DC) in Hayes
Township. Specifically, attention was focused primarily on the former Big Rock Nuclear plant
site, however the analysis applies to any and all parcels of a size large enough to potentially be
used for such a center. The advisory group, composed of community members who bring varied
expertise to the table, has no decision-making authority and the outcome of the group’s activity
is to be sent to the Planning Commission and ultimately the Board of Trustees for their action.

and any application
terest expressed to the

This group was formed after the township enacted a one-year morat
for the creation ofa DC, even though there had or has been any si

the prevention of such a land use being approved.
TOPIC HISTORY

data centers and whether there are loc
development. This led to the inclusion ved plan. A review of the
township's current zoning ordinance sugg sted th P : [ both the Commercial and
Industrial zoning districts wa |
application for a special us

ntfail
De. After consultation with the township's
C blish a moratorium on any type of application
for a DC for a period. hip to analyze the situation and develop
appropriate safegual i

e State claiming that the Township was
d raising the visibility of the potential site at the

d establish working relationships. After these initial
Iding the committee meetings at the township hall open
ers have listened to and taken all public comments into

this report.

It is believed that the work of this committee, as updated over the course of the planning
process, will lead to establishment of a clear determination and supporting regulations which
denies the development of a Large/Hyper scale DC, yet allows the reasonable use of
information technology by commercial and industrial organizations in the township in their
normal business functions. The following sections will outline our assessment of the current
situation regarding the DC environment and lead to providing the Planning Commission and the
Board of Trustees the information they need to act to best protect the township.


ll. Data center definition and breakdown

DATA CENTER: The term “data center” means any facility that primarily contains electronic
equipment used to process, store, and transmit digital information, which may be— (A) a free-
standing structure; or (B) a facility within a larger structure.

derived from 42 U.S. Code § 17112: https:/Avww.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/42/17112

TYPES OF DATA CENTERS

Edge data center. An edge data center is a data center used.by an organization to
deliver locally-cached data to customers served by the organization, reducing load times
of frequently-accessed online assets. Edge data centers are typically incidental to other
structures and businesses.
o Used for providing fast access to files and streaming. These sites are generally
replicating data from Hyperscale datacenters elsewhere in the network.
Power consumption range of 50kW.to 2MW 12
Internet providers such as Truestream would likely be considered in this
classification.
Modular data center. A temporary facility that is used to augment the rising needs of a
business to increase capacity for a short period of time while a more permanent solution
is put in place. Typically a plug andplay installation with self-contained infrastructure
and only a few ingress and egress points for data transfer.
o Used as a temporary stop-gap for computing. Could be implemented during
construction, or disaster relief; or during periods of extended high demand.
o Power consumption within the range of Enterprise to Edge, but varies
considerably, based/on need.
o Temporary statusis the key, as these structures are not designed with noise
suppression in.mind.
Enterprise data center. An enterprise data center exists largely, or solely, to serve an
organization's internal computing needs. Enterprise data centers are typically incidental
to other structures and businesses.
o These datacenters vary widely in power consumption, from a single 5kW rack, to
a 5MW room of servers. 12
o These larger data centers are becoming smaller as more people adopt cloud
computing, which puts more power draw at the Hyperscale, Colo, and Edge
locations.
Colocation data center: A commercial data center with the primary purpose of renting
computing resources or rack space to retail customers. Colocation data center facilities
are typically solely dedicated to their function as a datacenter.
o Customers can rent rack space with their own equipment, taking advantage of
communal cooling and reduced energy costs, or rent compute from the
datacenter owner, allowing them to manage hardware.

o Typical power consumption of a full colocation will range between 1 and 50 MW.
1,2


e Hyperscale data center: A large-scale data center typically owned by an individual |
provider and used to power their large-scale computing workloads, store customer files,
and host customer resources. Customer space is secondary, if available at all.
Hyperscale data center facilities are typically solely dedicated to their function as a
datacenter.

o Greater than 30MW power draw 1?

o These are the Amazon, Microsoft, Google, Oracle, IBM, etc datacenters. Used
for massive worklflows and serving customer needs around regions, and in some
cases, globally.

1. How Much Power Does a Hyperscale Data Center Use? In-Depth Analysis, Josh Mahan;
https://cc-techgroup.com/how-much-power-does-a-hypers¢ale-data-center-use/

2. Examining Data Center Energy Consumption and Power Sources, Enconnex;
https://www.enconnex.com/data-center-energy-consumption-and-power-sources/



lll. Political Landscape

The political landscape around data centers in America has changed dramatically over the last
two years. What was once a relatively noncontroversial economic-development project is now
becoming a major political issue at the local, state, and federal levels.

Why data centers are being built so aggressively

The explosion of artificial intelligence has created enormous demand for computing power.
Major technology companies such as Microsoft, Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud, Meta,
and OpenA\ are investing hundreds of billions of dollars in new data centers to support Al
services and cloud computing. Both Republican and Democratic leaders generally see Al
infrastructure as strategically important for competing with China and maintaining U.S.
technological leadership.

The main political divide
The debate is no longer "Should America build data centers?" but rather:

Supporters say:

Data centers bring investment and tax revenue. ;
Al is a national-security and economic-competitiveness issue.

e The U.S. needs domestic computing infrastructure ratherthan relying on foreign
countries.

e Construction creates jobs and can attract related industries.

Critics say:

Data centers consume huge amounts of electricity and water.

Local residents often see little long-term employment benefit.

Utility bills could rise,ifinfrastructure costs are shifted to ratepayers.
Projects can.create noise, land-use conflicts, and environmental concerns.
Gommunities often feel decisions are made without sufficient local input.

A rare bipartisan issue

One of the most interesting political aspects is that opposition cuts across traditional party lines.

You can find:

Conservatives opposing projects because of land use, property rights, and local control.
Progressives opposing them because of environmental and energy concerns.

Rural communities and suburban communities often making similar arguments despite
differing politics.

This has led to unusual alliances between environmental activists, local homeowners, and
politicians from both parties. In some states, lawmakers have proposed temporary moratoriums
or stricter regulations on new data-center construction.

The biggest issue: Electricity


The central political question in 2026 is who pays for the power.

Data centers require massive amounts of electricity. State governments increasingly worry that
ordinary households could face higher utility bills to support grid upgrades needed for Al
facilities. As a result, many politicians now argue that data-center operators should build or
finance their own power generation and transmission infrastructure.

Governors and regulators in states such as Texas, Ohio, and Pennsylvania are debating rules
requiring developers to bear more of those costs rather than passing them on to consumers.

Public opinion

Recent polling suggests Americans are increasingly skeptical of r; lata-center expansion:

e A Reuters/Ipsos poll found strong concern about electric is and local impacts.

@ Majorities oppose having large Al data centers bui i ie unities.

e Concerns are especially focused on power con:
transparency.

Federal Politics

T oversight or even
lations are established.

permitting. At the same time, some lawm:
temporary pauses on large data-center p:

To sum it up...

The current political deb. ‘ etitiveness versus local costs. " Most high-

communities should have Avhere those facilities are built. Rural communities like Hayes
Township are especially and resources, and are understandably
i \ and the potential harm that may accompany the construction



IV. Environmental Concerns

Data Centers have numerous impacts on their local environments, considerations for which
would need to be weighed as part of the process of drafting any rules outside of the null option
or outright ban. A number of these rules would be specific to Hayes Township and Charlevoix
County as well.

1 - Watershed impacts

Depending on their cooling design, datacenters can withdraw and consume massive amounts of
water, with daily consumption in large facilities (i.e., hyperscalers and geolocation centers) often
reaching into the millions of gallons per day. The degree to which water is lost due to
evaporation varies based on method, as does the potential for h 3m discharge back into
the environment: :

1. Open-loop evaporative cooling: This method d

(often municipal supplies or, in the case of o , likely from groundwate f, SOUrCeS)

9 absorb heatfrom servers and evaporate

environment into sealed

systems that circulate water around servers throug ing networks, drawing off heat
i ual withdrawal to account for

losses, but is far less consumptive. iable ending on the size of the
{ pment to be cooled.

Water can end up being | ) ; ds in either situation, often at an increased
temperature that can ki 32 ci i e, damaging local watersheds and upsetting
ecological balance i 2 water can also be chemically treated; if

returned to the env!

phase. No working, grid-scale (or even experimental) SMRs have been constructed in
the US. Only a single company has had their design approved by the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, and even they have yet to build a working reactor.

2. Holtec, who is responsible for the Big Rock spent nuclear fuel storage site, has stated
they have no interest in building a datacenter on their property, a smaller chunk of the
much larger Big Rock site. Building a datacenter on the location would require removal
of the fuel casks, which would have already been done if the US recycled spent nuclear
fuel in any appreciable amount - maintaining the casks is expensive.


With that in mind, on-site power generation at a hypothetical Hayes Township data center would
likely rely on the same choice made by other datacenters throughout the US: Gas turbines.

Gas turbines used to power datacenters, whether as a backup for periods of grid strain or as a
primary colocated power generation source, are noisy and contribute to significant air pollution.
Air quality concerns have been the subject of numerous lawsuits, including a high-profile one
targeting xAl’s Colossus data center in Memphis, TN, which relies exclusively on colocated gas
turbines and has been accused of destroying air quality in nearby neighborhoods. According to
reports on Colossus, xAl promised to use turbines that emitted less pollution, but the company
hasn't followed through on that pledge, instead installing cheaper, more polluting turbines.

battery systems in case
mental hazards, with

In addition to on-site power generation, data centers often emp
of power outage or demand spike. These systems can be serious

3 - Noise pollution

Colocated power generation can be incredibly noisy, as can data center facilities

Excepting power generation, cooling operations a themselves can contribute to
the average hyperscale or colo data center generatin f 65dB audible at nearby
locations.

In addition to audible sounds, data cent

not being audible.

Data center sound levels
taking place the harder p

4 - Light pollution

Datacenters, as 24-h /
described as : ht dome due'to isible halos of light visible miles away from the

datacenter:

Charle ternational dark sky sanctuary at Beaver Island that, while 32
miles oix, could still be impacted by a datacenter, especially one located

on th ownship, not to mention its effect on locals living in the township

itself.



V. Data Center Safety Requirements

Data center environments present vertical, compounding risks that our current municipal
infrastructure was not originally designed to handle. Implementing these conditions protects our
personnel, mitigates township liability, and ensures the developer bears the financial burden of
their specialized safety footprint.

A local fire department and Emergency Medical Services (EMS) agency must significantly
upgrade their specialized equipment, technical training, and on-site communications to handle a
data center. Data centers present highly unique, compounding emerge él s—combining
megawatt-level electrical pathways, high-volume toxic gases, heav ated clean-agent
suppression zones, and massive outdoor equipment yard obstru A standard municipal
fire response plan will not work. First responders require special tations across four
operational areas:

1. Highly Specialized Response Equipment

Traditional water-heavy firefighting techniques c:

e Thermal Imaging Cameras (TICs): The depa

Massive Carbon Dioxide (CO;) z
heavy-duty, non-conductive Clas:

systems (like Inergen, FM-200, or Novec 1230) to suffocate fires. Firefighters must be
trained on how to enter these oxygen-depleted or chemically altered atmospheres safely
using Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA).

e Lithium-lon Battery Runaway: Paramedics and firefighters need specialized training to
handle Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) room failures. A lithium-ion battery fire
produces off-gas (hydrofluoric acid and explosive hydrogen) and requires massive,
continuous cooling that can last for hours.

3. Pre-Planning and Facility Integration


A data center layout can confuse responders during an emergency. Local departments must
work directly with developers to integrate operations.

@ Comprehensive Facility Walkthroughs: The department must conduct multi-shift tours to
map out high-voltage switchgear rooms, massive outdoor cooling equipment yards, and
localized hazardous materials storage.

e Radio Signal Upgrades: Data centers are built like heavily shielded concrete fortresses,
which often completely block standard emergency radio frequencies. The township must
force the developer to install an internal Bi-Directional Amplifier (E
Radio Enhancement System so responders can talk to dispat
data halls. :

® Strict Knox Box Placements: Secure outer perimeters, bio ¢
security turnstiles can delay emergency entry. Responders need
Boxes containing master electronic access cards and physical keys
gates.

iccess controls, and
ialized Knox
all main perimeter

4. Specialized EMS Protocols

EMS crews must upgrade their medical readiness for er worker injuries and

environmental exposures.

e Heat-Related Iliness Treatment: clan i ontained hot aisles are
exposed to ambient temperatures exe in 8 Paramedics must prepare
for acute heat strok i

Chemical and Inhat

10



VI. Technical Requirements for a Datacenter in Hayes Township

Executive Summary

Data centers require significant infrastructure to operate reliably, including high-capacity electric
service, dedicated substation facilities, backup generation, uninterrupted power supply systems,
large-scale cooling, and adequate land area. Based on the technical requirements outlined,
Hayes Township’s existing electric and utility infrastructure would likely need substantial
upgrades before it could support a large data center facility, The mostimportant considerations
are electric capacity, transmission reliability, backup power, coolin t needs, permitting,
and land availability.

Electric Service Requirements

A datacenter typically requires electric demand of at le

pacres of ‘atten
at ii or higher voltage.

source transmission feed to allow for ma
interruptions.

Hayes Township is currer 5 y radia V and 69 kV transmission systems and has

; lis configuration, transmission system
upgrades would lik Rock site has an existing transmission right-
of-way easement, itional.¢ ements and rights- of-way would need to be secured for any

Diesel or fuel of on can be located onsite, but it is expensive to operate and maintain
and typically faces more stringent air-quality permitting requirements. Fuel storage becomes a
big concern along with safety standards and permitting from EAGLE. Backup generators would
also require operating approvals from environmental regulators, including EGLE and the EPA.

In addition to generators, data centers use uninterruptible power supply systems. These battery
backup systems allow the facility to ride through short interruptions and provide time for backup
generators to start and stabilize. This means a data center would likely require a large quantity
of batteries onsite.

11


Water and Cooling Requirements

Water is needed to cool servers and electronic equipment and to maintain optimal computer
operating temperatures. Cooling can be provided through open-loop evaporative cooling or
closed-loop water cooling.

Open-loop evaporative cooling requires a large supply of water and uses evaporative cooling
towers, which may be located on rooftops or as standalone structures. These systems can
create noise from large fans. Closed-loop water cooling uses a fixed supply of water and rooftop
chiller units, with fans typically operating continuously. Closed-loop systems generally require
more energy consumption than open-loop systems.

Land Requirements

facilities may
structures

Land needs vary depending on the type and scale of data center. Coloc
require approximately 10 to 40 acres and often use traditional office-style bi
with standard security measures such as fencing and.card access.

Hyperscale or large data centers may require ap)
can include massive warehouse-style buildings, large
banks, large substations, backup generators with exha
and staffed security.

s, industrial structures, fencing,

Key Takeaways

e ic service that typically exceeds
ssion upgrades, additional easements, and
to support data center reliability needs.
systems, and environmental permitting

12

































































