                                CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF MONITOR
                               SPECIAL TOWNSHIP BOARD MEETING
                                         March 23, 2026

The Supervisor called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.

Pledge of Allegiance was recited by all.

Members present: Spencer, Stewart, Kloha, Arnold, Bellor, Meier, Meylan
Members absent: None
Township Attorney was present.

Public Input was held.

Motion by Stewart was seconded by Kloha to adopt the agenda with the addition of Public Input for a
proposed Michigan Land and Water Conservation Fund grant application and Resolution R-2026-003
Support for DNR Land and Water Conservation Fund grant application.
Roll call vote:
Yes:      Spencer, Stewart, Kloha
No:        Arnold, Bellor, Meier, Meylan
Motion denied.

Motion by Bellor seconded by Kloha to adopt the agenda as printed.
Roll call vote:
Yes:      Stewart, Kloha, Arnold, Bellor, Meier, Meylan, Spencer
No:        None
Motion carried.

Opened Public hearing for designation of revised Downtown District Boundaries for the Monitor
Township Downtown Development Authority.

The expansion area was shown and the purpose and rationale for it was explained.

Joy Krueger asked if we turn this property over to the DDA and put in infrastructure whose money is it
we are spending? Attorney Sheppard replied, “Every taxing jurisdiction that has an increase in valve,
those increased taxes will go to the D.D.A, the township, the county, the bus company, Delta college,
the mosquito control, etc. …all public entities coffers, including the township, will contribute
proportionate to their millage amounts.” She looked up GIS options to purchase on a parcel. Her
concern is we will be spending township funds on infrastructure.

Supervisor Spencer assured her the D.D.A. board is made up of township residents, whose goal is to
attract more businesses for more jobs. Securing these D.D.A borders, this district is created to capture
money for the D.D.A to spend as necessary. The D.D.A. is not obligated to spend it on anything.

Elaine Kochany has concerns about what the general public feels about the D.D.A expansion, after
hearing about it on TV and in the paper - that a data center wants to be attracted to the area. All of a
sudden the D.D.A. wants to expand. She is not comfortable with the County agreeing to do this. Talk to
other places where data centers are going in and they can’t be stopped.

T. Spencer explained that has nothing to do with what we are doing today. This expansion has been in
the works for years. In the last couple months people have come out and stated what they want to do. If
the township decides not to collect this money, they can still come. If we expand this area and capture
this money, we can attract other businesses to come. The last board was going to sunset the D.D.A.

                                            Charter Township of Monitor
                                 Special Township Board Meeting of March 23, 2026
                                                      Page 1
We worked with the County to not sunset it, in order to bring jobs to this area and not decline our
population. We have to bring jobs to this area.

E. Kochany stated she was here for the past D.D.A.’s that guaranteed jobs, business comes in and
gets the government welfare and leave.

Spencer - the D.D.A. doesn’t change the zoning. If we don’t do anything they can still come.

Attorney Sheppard stated the amendment to the Zoning Ordinance for a Moratorium on Data Centers
will stop them for a period of one year.

P. Meylan was concerned that there is no buffer for the residents on 4 Mile Road. The cutout on the
map goes around the house that is on 4-mile.

D. Scherzer answered that would be determined at the Planning Commission level, saying you must
have a buffer – it needs to be this distance to protect the property, etc. The D.D.A. doesn’t have any
authority to make that, it would come at site plan approval time.

Attorney - the township board ultimately votes on the zoning.

E. Arnold - lot #59 the parcel that goes out to 4-mile road should not be included.

T. Spencer - the D.D.A. has no influence on what is built or authority on the boundaries.

D. Scherzer - the concern exists whether that property is in the D.D.A. or not.

Closed Public hearing at 6:02

Motion by Bellor seconded by Stewart to remove Ordinance 67-V from the agenda and add Ordinance
67-U Declaring a Moratorium on Data Center Construction and approval for a period of one year within
the Charter Township of Monitor.
Roll call vote:
Yes:      Kloha, Bellor, Meier, Meylan, Spencer, Stewart
No:        Arnold
Motion carried.

Motion by Bellor seconded by Kloha to have Introduction and first reading of Ordinance 67-U Declaring
a Moratorium on Data Center Construction and approval for a period of one year within the Charter
Township of Monitor.
Roll call vote:
Yes:      Bellor, Meier, Meylan, Spencer, Stewart, Kloha
No:        Arnold
Motion carried.

Motion by Arnold seconded by Meylan to adjourn at 6:11 p.m. Motion unanimously carried.
Linda K. Stewart, MiPMC, Clerk - Charter Township of Monitor




                                            Charter Township of Monitor
                                 Special Township Board Meeting of March 23, 2026
                                                      Page 2
