                            CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF FENTON
                                  Ordinance No: 867
                              Adopted: February 17, 2026

An interim zoning ordinance to protect the public health, safety and general welfare during
the preparation and enactment of permanent zoning ordinance amendments and to permit
the Township to consider and assess regulation of data centers within the township as
well as to protect the lands and resources during the period required for the preparation
and enactment of a proper ordinance regulating data centers for a period of 12 months.

THE CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF FENTON, COUNTY OF GENESEE, MICHIGAN
ORDAINS:

Section I. Definitions
Data Center: A data center is a specialized physical facility or building that centrally
houses IT operations, computing machines, and data storage systems. It may act as the
backbone of digital infrastructure, providing secure, controlled environments for servers,
networking equipment, and data management, often supporting cloud computing and
high-speed transmission.

Section II. Temporary Moratorium
The Township hereby enacts a blanket prohibition on the establishment and use of data
centers, including without limitation, approval of such use within the Township for a period
of 12 months while the Township Board, with the assistance of the Planning Commission,
evaluate and prepare as necessary, permanent zoning regulations related to the
placement and other regulations relating to data centers.

Section III. Severability
Each and every article, section and subsection, of this Ordinance, and each provision of
each article, section and subsection, is declared to be separable and severable, and a
judicial determination that any article, section, subsection or provision of this Ordinance is
invalid or unenforceable, shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other article,
section, subsection or provision.

Section IV. Penalty
A. Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this ordinance is guilty of a
   misdemeanor.
B. That the penalty for violating this Ordinance shall be punishable by a fine not
   exceeding Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00), or imprisonment for a term not exceeding
   ninety (90) days, or both.

Section V. Effective Date
This Ordinance or a summary thereof shall be published as required by law. This
Ordinance and the provisions contained therein shall become effective immediately after
passage and publication thereof.
We, the undersigned Supervisor and Clerk of the Charter Township of Fenton, Genesee
County, Michigan, do hereby certify that the above Ordinance was adopted by the
Township Board of the Charter Township of Fenton on the 17th day of February 2026.




Vince L. Lorraine, Supervisor                   Robert E. Krug, Clerk



Ordinance introduced:      02/03/2025
Ordinance adopted:         02/17/2026
Publication date:          02/22/2026
Effective date:            02/22/2026
