Williams Charter Township
Planning Commission
March 17, 2026
                                The CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF WILLIAMS- Bay County, MI
                                             PLANNING COMMISSION
                                         Special Meeting- March 17, 2026

    The Planning Commission of the Charter Township of Williams held a Special Meeting on March 17, 2026, at the
    Williams Township Hall.

    I.     Call to Order & Roll Call
    The meeting was called to order by Jeremy Rosenbrock at 7:00 p.m.
    Present: Jeremy Rosenbrock, Bob Wing, Terry Hus, Kevin Dzurak, Doug Behmlander
    Excused: Jen Doran, Tom Putt

    II.     The Pledge of Allegiance was said in unison.

    III.    Public Input – not related to Ordinance 33-202.
            a. Property lines for April 2nd meeting, updating the zoning map. Clarified zoning, not property lines
            b. Mark Piotrowski – introduced himself, running for District 97

    IV.    Approve Previous Meeting Minutes
    Doug Behmlander moved, supported by Kevin Dzurak, to approve the March 2, 2026, meeting minutes, as
    presented. Aye: 5 Nay: 0 Motion carried.

    V.      Regular Agenda -
              1. Ordinance #33-202 Declaring a moratorium on Data Center Review, Approval and Construction
    Bob Wing moved, supported by Terry Hus, to present Ordinance No. 33-202, as is, to the township board on April
    14th for introduction and first reading.
    Roll call vote taken. Motion unanimously carried.

    VI.     Public Input – some questions residents asked:
            a) How long is the moratorium?
            b) The state is going to tell us what to do?
            c) Could there be experts that give information for and against?
            d) Bangor Township resident, what are the impacts on utilities, water, electricity, and noise?
            e) What happens in the end?
            f) Have you done any research?
            g) Can the state shorten the moratorium?

    VII.    Adjournment
    Kevin Dzurak moved, with support from Jeremy Rosenbrock, to adjourn at 8:07 p.m. Aye: 5 Nay: 0 Motion carried.


Respectfully Submitted: Thomas Riordan, Deputy Clerk
