                             COMSTOCK CHARTER TOWNSHIP
                   COUNTY OF KALAMAZOO, STATE OF MICHIGAN
                                      ORDINANCE NO. 550
                                  ADOPTED: January 16, 2025
                        EFFECTIVE: Upon publication after adoption


           AN ORDINANCE TO ENACT A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON
                   LARGE RENEWABLE ENERGY FACILITIES
      An Ordinance to protect the public health, safety, and welfare by establishing regulations
relating to a limited moratorium on considering applications for renewable energy facilities or
projects including wind energy projects 100 MW or larger, battery energy storage facilities 50
MW or larger, solar energy facilities 50 MW or larger and/or hybrid projects of combined 50 MW
or larger, while the Township completes a study of the ordinances and regulations pertaining
thereto and considers possible subsequent revisions to the current ordinances pertaining thereto;
to provide for severability; to repeal all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict therewith; and
to provide an effective date.


                            COMSTOCK CHARTER TOWNSHIP
                            KALAMAZOO COUNTY, MICHIGAN
                                            ORDAINS:

                                            SECTION I
                                            FINDINGS
       In accordance with Public Act 359 of 1947, MCL 42.1 et seq., as amended, Comstock
Charter Township has determined the following:

       1. The Township Board of Comstock Charter Township determines that the approval of
          large scale renewable energy facilities, including battery energy storage facilities 50
          MW or larger, solar energy facilities 50 MW or larger, wind energy facilities 100 MW
          or larger and/or hybrid projects of 50 MW or larger in size (hereinafter large scale
          renewable energy facilities or projects) may result in or produce negative impacts on
          permitted land uses and development and may harm the public health, safety and
          general welfare of property owners and residents of Comstock Charter Township.

       2. Recently, and as a result of PA 233 of 2023, the Township Board has received
          substantial comments and information from the public raising public health, safety, and
          welfare concerns about the impacts large scale renewable energy facilities on the
          residents and property owners of the Township

       3. Additionally, in light of a recent litigation initiated against the Michigan Public Service
          Commission regarding the MPSC’s proposed implementation of PA 233 of 2023, the
          Township Board feels it is appropriate to consider the Township’s authorities and
          abilities to regulate large scale renewable energy projects/facilities in more detail.
       4. The Township Board finds that adopting a limited moratorium is reasonable and
          necessary for, among other reasons, the following reasons:
          A. Michigan courts have recognized that a moratorium is a common and legitimate
             tool to preserve the status quo while formulating a development strategy.
          B. The Township Board desires to review and study of the public health, safety, and
             welfare concerns regarding large scale renewable energy projects/facilities and any
             township regulations that may impact and/or regulate such projects.
          C. The adoption of a moratorium will allow the Township Board adequate time to
             study and possibly implement revisions to the Township’s ordinances and
             regulations, including attention to and consideration of citizen input and
             involvement, public debate, and full consideration of all issues and points of view.

   5. The Township Board accordingly determines that it is desirable and in the public interest
      for the reasons set forth above that the Township Board adopt a limited moratorium on
      the acceptance and/or processing of any applications for large scale renewable energy
      projects and/or facilities, including wind energy project 100 MW or larger, battery energy
      storage project 50 MW or larger, solar energy project 50 MW or large and/or any hybrid
      project whose combined megawatts of any energy type exceeds 50 MW.

   6. Because of the recent effective date of PA 233 of 2023 and the resultant possible siting of
      large scale renewable energy projects/facilities in the Township without the Township’s
      review or consent, the Township Board declares this Ordinance to be of extreme
      importance and declares the ordinance to be an emergency ordinance per MCL 42.20.

                                 SECTION II
                       MORATORIUM/TERM OF MORATORIUM

        The Township Board adopts a limited moratorium on the acceptance and/or processing of
any applications for a large scale renewable energy project and/or facility, which includes any
wind energy project 100 MW or larger, battery energy storage project 50 MW or larger, solar
energy project 50 MW or larger and/or any hybrid project whose combined megawatts of any
energy type is 50 MW or larger. The limited moratorium is until December 31, 2025 or until the
effective date of any amended or new Township ordinances or regulations addressing large scale
renewable energy projects and/or facilities is effective, whichever date occurs first.

                                    SECTION III
                             EXTENSION OF MORATORIUM

        Before this moratorium expires, the Township Board may extend the moratorium by
resolution as appropriate to allow sufficient time to complete amendments or additions to its
ordinances and regulations.




                                                2
                                        SECTION IV
                                       SEVERABILITY

        The provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to be severable. If any clause,
sentence, word, section or provision is hereafter declared void or unenforceable for any reason by
a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not affect the remainder of such ordinance which shall
continue in full force and effect.

                                          SECTION V
                                           REPEAL

       All ordinance or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.


                                 SECTION VI
                     EMERGENCY ORDINANCE/EFFECTIVE DATE

      This ordinance is declared to be an emergency ordinance and shall take immediate effect
upon publication.


                            COMSTOCK CHARTER TOWNSHIP
                                Nicole Beauchamp, Clerk
                                  5858 King Highway
                                 Kalamazoo, MI 49048
                                     269-381-2360




                                                3
