                                         AGENDA
                                       May 12, 2026
                              Board of Commissioners Meeting


9:00 a.m.   Call To Order – Regular Meeting
            Prayer & Pledge
            Roll Call (Confirmation of Attendance)
            Declaration of Amendments to Agenda
            Approval of Agenda
            Approval of Minutes: April 24, 2026 (Regular)


            Communications

            Announcements

            Public Comment/Open Meetings Act – Limit of 3 minutes per person.


9:10 a.m.   Karly Creguer, MSUE District 10 Director – 2025 Huron County MSUE Annual Report


9:35 a.m.   Consent Action(s)
               1. (FINANCE) Contract with Wade Mazure to complete 2026 agricultural
                   appraisal studies at a cost not to exceed $40,000.
               2. (FINANCE) Contract with Great Lakes Assessing Services, LLC to complete
                   2026 commercial and industrial appraisal studies at a cost not to exceed $32,240.
               3. (FINANCE) Purchase red dot sights for the Sheriff’s Office from Strohman
                   Enterprises, Inc. at a cost of $12,988, to be taken from the I.C.E. Asset Forfeiture
                   Fund 266.01, line 266.01-362.02-977.
               4. (FINANCE) Authorize EF Johnson to repair one (1) repeater for the radio
                   system at a total cost of $4,036.80, to be taken from the Emergency Phone
                   Service Fund 261.01, line 261.01-325-933.
               5. (FINANCE) Purchase three (3) 2026 Dodge Durango Pursuit vehicles from
                   Tubbs Brothers in the amount of $122,298 for the Sheriff’s Office, to be taken
                   from line 101-301-981.
               6. (FINANCE) Authorize Richs Masonry LLC to renovate 28 windows of the
                   County Building at a cost not to exceed $27,000, to be taken from the General
                   Public Improvement Fund 445, line 445-902-932.
               7. (LEGISLATIVE) Approve the application to allow acreage into Farmland
                   Development Rights Agreement (P.A. 116) in Bloomfield Township as requested
                   by James P. Guza.
               8. (LEGISLATIVE) Authorize the Chairman to sign the 2026 Survey &
                   Remonumentation Contracts.
               9. (PERSONNEL) Employ Andrew Meisner as a full time Assistant Prosecuting
                   Attorney in the Office of the Prosecuting Attorney at Grade 190, Step 1 with a
                   salary of $68,296, effective May 18, 2026.
               10. (PERSONNEL) Transition Balie Talaski from casual status to part time status,
                   effective June 1, 2026.


Board of Commissioners Agenda – May 12, 2026
Page 2

              New Business
                 Resolutions
                 1. (FINANCE) Adopt the Schedule of Fees for Utility Scale Solar Energy Facility
                    Zoning and revise the current Schedule of Fees for Building Permits.
                 2. (LEGISLATIVE) Impose a 3-month moratorium on the issuance of special use
                    permits for Utility Scale Solar Energy Facilities and Battery Energy Storage
                    Systems.
                 3. (LEGISLATIVE) Impose a 12-month moratorium on the issuance of land use
                    permits for data centers and similar uses.
                 4.


                  Elections by the Board
                      None at this time.


                  Appointments by the Chairman
                     None at this time.


                  Motions
                  PERSONNEL
                  Move to accept the retirement of Denise Gornowicz from the position of Account
                  Clerk in the Friend of the Court Office effective June 30, 2026, with regret.

                  PROPERTIES
                  Move to put out a Request for Proposals to repair the parking lot at the Huron County
                  Senior Center.


              Reports


              Recess to Audit Bills

              Approval of Bills


              Public Comment/Open Meetings Act – Limit of 3 minutes per person


              Final Board Comment


       Adjournment




                  *** Immediately following the adjournment of the Regular Meeting ***


Board of Commissioners Agenda – May 12, 2026
Page 3


          Committee Meeting of the Whole

                 Department Head Meeting
                    Time Clocks
                    Financial Update
                    Courthouse Security Update
                    Parking Update
                    Concerns for BOC

                 Properties
                    

                 Agencies
                   

                 Legislative
                    

                 Safety
                    

                 Personnel
                    

                 Finance
                    


          Adjourn Committee of the Whole




To participate in the meeting, you can:
Join with Zoom:
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/82040211373?pwd=vZkSt1qmLeN973NWAIwvuDjCvksjT1.1
 - or -
Join by Phone: 1-301-715-8592

Meeting ID: 820 4021 1373                 Password: 180863


MSU EXTENSION

Justin S. Morrill Hail
446 W. Circle Drive
East Lansing, Ml 48824
Phone: 517-355-2308
Fax: 517-355-6574
msuedir@msu.edu

Michigan State University
Extension programs and materials
are apen to all withaut regard to
race, color, national origin,
gender, gender identity, religion,
age, height, weight, disability,
political beliefs, sexual
orientation, marital status, family
status or veteran status.

Michigan State University, U.S.
Department of Agriculture and
counties cooperating.

MICHIGAN STATE
UNIVERSITY

Extension

May 4, 2026

Dear Volunteers and Members of Huron County 4-H,

After much thought and reflection, I would like to take this time to share that I
will be retiring as of June 5, 2026. The decision comes with a mixture of
gratitude, pride, and sadness, as being the Huron County 4-H Program
Coordinator has meant so much to me.

It has truly been an honor to work among such caring, supportive, and dedicated
volunteers, parents, community members, businesses, and 4-H youth of Huron
County. Over the past nine years, I have been fortunate to build many meaningful
relationships and to share in the special moments that make 4-H such a
wonderful youth program. The support of the 4-H program is a gift to the youth
and this county.

As I step into this new chapter of life, I do so with a heart full of appreciation.
Thank you for all the support you have given me and the memories we created
together.

Although I am retiring, I plan on continuing to be a part of Huron County 4-H
as a volunteer. I look forward to staying in touch and continue to see the 4-H
program thrive.

With pees oo

Ae tives a fa 1

Patricia Errer, 4-H Program Coordinator
MSU Extension-Huron County

690 N. Port Crescent Street

Bad Axe, MI 48413

989-269-9949


NOTICE OF RETIREMENT

Huron County Circuit Court Family Division
FOC Director Ann M. Schultz
Honorable Judge Gerald M. Prill

April 30, 2026
Dear Ann,

Lam writing to formally announce my decision to retire from my position as the Account Clerk
at the Htiron County Friend of the Court office.

After thoughtful consideration, I have decided this is the right time for me to retire along with
my husband and enjoy our precious time together since life is way too short and we want to
enjoy everything as much as possible while we can.

My last working day will be June 30, 2026 and my retirement date will be as of July 1, 2026.

I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincerest gratitude to you and to the entire
staff who have become my work family over the past decade. I will most definitely miss seeing

everyone on a regular basis and J truly enjoy working with everyone here and wish everyone the
best in the years to come.

Sincerely,

Denise Gornowicz



Jodi Essenmacher

——= —= sss sss. SS SSS SSS
From: tomrogue13 <tomrogue13@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, May 7, 2026 3:38 PM
To: BOC
Subject: External: Supporr for Rubicon solar project

Good afternoon,

My name is Thomas Roggenbuck and | was unable to attend last night's meeting with the Planning
Committee about the solar project in Rubicon township. | wanted to listen and learn more information
about the project, as well as voice my support and some suggestions for the committee.

| support the investment into green energy. It is a growing industry nationally and globally, so we can
bring well paying jobs to huron county and retain talent here. | support the tax benefits from green energy
projects as well.

As a farmer, | understand the worry and fear of developing our farm land. Many families and generations
have put their lives into changing and improving the land into what it is. No one wants to see that taken
away by a soulless, for profit corporation. However, while farmland is being lost at a staggering rate each
year, green energy projects are not the culprit. American Farmland Trust projects about 5% of farm land
lost to development will be because of green energy. Most of the farmland will be lost to sprawling,
expensive residential and suburban developments. Plus, farming depends on a reliable, stable climate.
The faster we can reduce our carbon emissions, the better it is for farmers.

| would like to address a concern I've heard a few times about solar panels being toxic. Ultimately, this is
a high exaggerated fear. While there is Cadmium Telluride in a solar panel, it comprises less than a
percent of all the material in a panel, deemed non-toxic by the EPA, and only leaked out of solar panels
after the panels in a laboratory setting, were crushed to dust and soaked in acidic solutions. Neither are
factors in Rubicon township.

| do have a few suggestions for the Planning Committee.

First: there are many plots of land that arent being used for farming either set aside for development or
have been developed but are not used. It would be nice to see these areas of land incorporated into solar
projects.

Second: there is so much land dedicated to parking lots. | roughly estimated about 25 acres in bad axe
alone. These should be covered by solar panels, raised up high enough to use the parking lot still. This
would generate green energy, tax benefits from land that wasn't before, and give people covered parking
from rain, snow, and sun.

Third: it's frustrating to see green energy be built while at the same time our energy bills still go up and
corporations like DTE and Consumers ask for continual rate hikes and rake in profits. | would like to see
the rates in areas that have green energy be lower. Maybe there isn't much we can do on a local level, but
| want to make the suggestion.

I'm not sure if this is the correct email for this topic, so please if you could forward it to the correct
person, | would appreciate it


Have a good day,
Thomas Roggenbuck


No. 26-

RESOLUTION
To: The Honorable Board of Commissioners
Huron County
Michigan

WE, the FINANCE COMMITTEE, respectfully beg leave to submit the following resolution for
your consideration:

WHEREAS, state law dictates that a study must be done in every property classification in every
jurisdiction annually; and

WHEREAS, Huron County remains without an on-staff appraiser; and

WHEREAS, Jason Daniels, Equalization Director, is recommending to this Board that Huron
County contract with Wade Mazure to complete appraisal studies in the Agricultural class properties,
which would otherwise be completed by Equalization Department staff, to determine an estimate of the
fair market value of selected properties for the 2026 Equalization Study to determine the 2027 starting
base. Said contractual work not to exceed $40,000; now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Huron County enter into a contract with Wade Mazure to
complete 2026 agricultural and residential appraisal studies as required of the Huron County Equalization
Department.

Respectfully submitted,

FINANCE COMMITTEE

Mary E. Babcock, Chairman

John Hunt, Vice Chairman

Joe Murphy, Member Dated: May 12, 2026

VOICE / ROLL CALL VOTE:
COMMISSIONER YES NO ABSENT COMMISSIONER YES NO ABSENT
SAMI KHOURY a a a JOHN HUNT a a Q
KURT GEIGER a a a JOE MURPHY a a a
J. SCOTT MAUST a a im) MARY E. BABCOCK a a a
STEVE VAUGHAN a a Q

RESOLUTION: Q ADOPTED QO DEFEATED Q TABLED


CONTRACT FOR APPRAISAL SERVICES

THIS CONTRACT, made and entered into this __ day of 2026, by and between HU-

RON COUNTY,.a municipal corporation and political subdivision of the State of Michigan, 250 East.

Huron Ave, Bad Axe, MI, hereinafter called the “County”), and WADE MAZURE, CAME III, whose
principal office is located at 6573 Learman Road, Harbor Beach, MI, (hereinafter called
the“Appraiser”), shall be effective on the date of approval and execution by and on behalf of the County.

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, the County desires to determine the market valuc for certain real property or inter-
ests therein located in the County for use in the equalization process; and

WHEREAS, the Company represents that it is well qualified by training and experience and can
prepare and furnish to the County the desired appraisal reports.

NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual covenants hereinafter contained, it
is hereby agreed as follows:

1. The County will furnish the Appraiser with the County's appraisal report forms, pertinent
segments of the parcel maps, parcel numbers, legal descriptions, and names of record owners, and/or
other descriptions of all properties upon which an appraisal is desired in said County.

2. The Appraiser will make a personal inspection of each parcel to be appraised and will
prepare an independent appraisal of each parcel.

3. Assignment or Subcontracting. The Appraiser shall not assign or subcontract any of its
duties and obligations under this Agreement without obtaining the prior written consent of the County.

4. The Appraiser will use all proper techniques, methods and analyses applicable, including
those specifically named in the most recent Michigan Assessor's Training Manual and Michigan Asses-
sor’s Manual, in arriving at an estimate of value. These techniques, methods, and analyses shall include,
but not be limited to, development of land values and economic condition factors.

5. The Appraiser will utilize the BS&A Equalizer program in making appraisals. Huron.
County will obtain approval from BS&A for the Appraiser to use the Equalizer program on it’s personal
computer. Such use of the Equalizer program to be used only for appraisals to be used for Huron County
equalization purposes, and consistent with the licensing requirements of BS&A. upon termination or
completion of this Agreement, the Appraiser shall discontinue use of program.

6. All expenses incurred by the Appraiser are the Appraiser’s liability and are not to become
an expense to the County except as provided for in this agreement.

Page 1 of 6

Brae.


7. The Appraiser must, for each specific property to be appraised. provide a completed val-
uation statement along with supporting documentation containing all information necessary to arrive at
the market value of the property.This information shall include land sketch, building sketch of any
buildings, and photographs. It is agreed that said valuation statement shall be submitted in a digital for-
mat specified bythe County.

8. It is mutually agreed and understood between the parties hereto that the Appraiser must
submit supporting documentation demonstrating the factual basis for the land values and economic con-
dition factors used in the appraisals.

9. Compensation. It is further mutually agreed that in consideration of the performance un-
der this contract, compensation shall be paid as follows:

The County will compensate the Appraiser a total of not to exceed Forty Thousand and 00/100
Dollars ($40,000) for services pursuant to this Agreement as follows:

Compensation is based upon the number of parcels and cost per parcel as indicated below. Ap-
praiser will be paid a lump sum fee on completion of each parcel. Upon the verification and ap-
proval by the Equalization Director, each invoice and the sum due thereunder shall be processed
and paid in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the County’s procedure for the
processing and payment of accounts payable.

Parcel classed Agricultural: $94.50

10. It is expected that the State Tax Commission will require approximately 410 Agricultural
parcels for the 2026 Equalization Study to determine the 2027 starting base. The actual number of par-
cels may differ. In the event the Director of Equalization finds appraisal reports unacceptable because of
noncompliance withthe terms of this contract, or because of improper appraisal technique, payment shall
be withheld until such appraisals have been revised or supplemented, without additional cost to the
County, and accepted by the Director.

11. In the event a dispute arises concerning a question or fact about the work not specifically
covered or referenced by any other terms of this contract, the County shall set forth the final position.
Where no agreement can be reached, this contract shall be terminated. The contract may also be termi-
nated when in the opinion of the County, the Appraiser’s services are unsatisfactory, or because of the
Appraiser’s failure to prosecute the work with due diligence, or within the time limits specified in this
agreement, or because of a disability or death of the Appraiser, In such an event, the work that has been
completed, when the County gives the notice of termination, becomes the property of the County.

12. The Appraiser, as a condition of the above compensation agreement, agrees to attend ne-

cessary meetings and conferences with representatives of the County, the local government units, and/or
the State Tax Commission to discuss the appraisals.

Page 2 of 6


13. The Appraiser agrees to furnish the completed appraisal assignments to the County on or
before October 1" of the year in which the appraisal assignments are received. Supplemental or revised
appraisals caused by the County’s actions will because to change this to a later date only by mutual writ-
ten agreement between the parties to this contract. It is further agreed by the Appraiser that they will
furnish the County a written progress report of the appraisal work accomplished or to submit digital cop-
ies of the work in progress on the Project as requested.

14, The Appraiser warrants that the market value determined in each appraisal shall accurate-
ly represent the true market value of the property appraised and that the market value shall be deter-
mined in accordance with the instructions contained in the most recent Michigan Assessor’s Manual. For
breach or violation of this warranty, the County shall have the right to annul this agreement without lia-
bility.

15. Termination.This contract may be terminated by action of the County upon written no-
tice to the Appraiser stating cause of termination. It is agreed that if this contract is terminated, the
County shall be the sole judge of the ownership and value of the work done by the Appraiser under the
terms of the contract, and the sole arbitrator of any dispute concerning a question of fact not disposed of
herein which may arise about said work.

16. Inspection of Appraiser’s Work, Books, Documents, Etc. The Appraiser agrees to
submit to reasonable periodic checks by the Equalization Director or a designated member of his staff of
the contract work, the procedures being utilized by the Appraiser and progress as to the work schedule.
All books, documents, papers, maps and records established in relation to this Agreement shall be open
to inspection during the County’s regular working hours by the Equalization Director or the designated
member of his stalf.

17. County’s Title to Records, Documents, Papers, Ete, The County shall have the sole
and exclusive right, title and interest to any and all records, documents, papers, maps or manuscripts per-
taining to or prepared pursuant to this Agreement.

18. Compliance with the Law. Applicable Law and Venue. The Appraiser, while engaged
in any activity pursuant to this Agreement, shall comply with all applicable Federal, State or local laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations. Breach of this covenant shall be regarded as a material breach of this
Agreement. This Agreement shall be construed according to the laws of the State of Michigan. The ve-
nue for the bringing of any legal or equitable action under this Agreement shall be established in accor-
dance with the statutes of the State of Michigan and/or Michigan Court Rules. In the event that any ac-
tion is brought under this Agreement in Federal Court, the venue for such action shall be the Federal
Judicial District of Michigan, Eastern District.

19. _ Restriction on New Clients and Avoidance of Conflicts of Interest. The Appraiser
agrees not to obtain any additional new municipal clients within the County of Huron during the term of
this Agreement. The Company may, however, sell or license its software to another municipal client.

The Company also agrees, during the term of this Agreement or any extended term in which this
Agreement remains in effect, to avoid both actual and the appearance of conflicts of interest by NOT:

Page 3 of 6


A. Including in the commercial property appraisals performed by the Company under this
Agreement the property of any of the Company’s private clients.

B. Providing appraisal services to any party who has commercial property appraised under
this Agreement.

20. Indemnification and Hold Harmless. The Company shall, at its own expense, protect,
defend, indemnify, save and hold harmless the County, and its elected and appointed officers, employees
and agents from all claims, damages. costs, lawsuits and expenses, including, but not limited to, all costs
from administrative proceedings, court costs and attorney fees, that they may incur as a result of any
acts, omissions or negligence of the Company or any of its officers, employees or agents which may
arise out of this Agreement.

The Company’s indemnification responsibilities under this section shall include the sum of dam-
ages, costs and expenses which are in excess of the sum paid out on behalf of or reimbursed to the
County, its officers, employees and agents by the insurance coverage obtained and/or maintained by the
Company pursuant to the requirements of this Agreement.

21. Liability Insurance. During the term of this Agreement the Company shall maintain the
following insurances:

A. Workers’ Disability Compensation Insurance, including Employers’ Liability Coverage,
covering its employees, in accordance with all applicable statutes of the State of Michi-
gan.

B. Commercial General Liability Insurance on an “Occurrence Basis” with limits of liability

not less than $500,000 per occurrence and/or aggregate combined single limit. Coverage
shall include the following: (a) Contractual Liability; (b) Products and Completed Opera-
tions; (c) Independent Companys Coverage: (d) Broad Form General Liability Endorse-
ment or Equivalent.

Cc. Motor Vehicle Liability Insurance, including Michigan No-Fault Coverage, with limits of
liability of not less than $500,000 per occurrence combined single limit Bodily Injury and
Property Damage. Coverage shall include all owned vehicles, all non-owned vehicles
and all hired vehicles.

D. Professional Liability Insurance (Errors and Omissions) shall be maintained during the
life of this Agreement with limits of liability of not less than $500,000 per claim.

E Additional Insured - Commercial General Liability Insurance, as described above, shall
include an endorsement stating the following shall be * Additional Insureds”: The County
of Huron, all the County of Huron’s elected and appointed officials, employees and vo-
lunteers, boards, commissions and/or authorities and board members, including em-
ployees and volunteers thereof.

Page 4 of 6


F. Cancellation Notice - All insurance described above shall include an endorsement stating
the following: “It is understood and agreed that thirty (30) days advance written notice of
cancellation, non-renewal, reduction and/or material changes shall be sent to: Jason Da-
niels, Equalization Director, 250 E Huron Ave # 309, Bad Axe, MI 48413.”

G. Proof of Insurance - The Company shall provide to the County at the time the Agreement
copies are returned by it for execution, with two (2) copies of certificates of insurance for
each of the policies mentioned above. If so requested, certified copies of all policies will
be furnished.

All insurance coverages shall be with insurance companies licensed and admitted to do business
in the State of Michigan, who are acceptable to the County, and who have a minimum A.M. Best
Company’s Insurance Reports rating of A or A- (Excellent).

If any of the insurance coverages required by this section expire during the term of this Agree-
ment, the Company shall deliver renewal certificates and/or policies to the County at least ten
(10) days prior to the expiration date.

22. Independent Contractor. It is expressly understood and agreed that the Company is an
independent contractor. The employees, servants and agents of the Company shall in no way be deemed
to be and shall not hold themselves out as the employees, servants or agents of the County. The Com-
pany’s employees, servants and agents shall not be entitled to any fringe benefits which the County af-
fords its employees, such as, but not limited to, health and accident insurance, life insurance, paid vaca-
tion leave, paid sick leave or longevity. The Company shali be responsible for the payment of salaries,
wages and other compensation due its staff for services they perform under this Agreement and for
withholding and payment of all applicable taxes. including, but not limited to, income and social securi-
ty taxes to the proper Federal, State and local governments. The Company shall carry workers’ disabil-
ity compensation insurance coverage for its employees, as required by law, and shall provide the County
with proof of said coverage.

23. Modification of Agreement. Modifications, amendments or waivers of any provisions
of this Agreement may be made only by the written mutual consent of the parties hereto.

24. Agreement Term. The Company shall commence performance of the services required
under this Agreement on the 1" day of February, 2026, and shall complete said services by no later than
the 1* day of October, 2026, Time Being of the Essence.

25. County’s Option to Contract with Other Appraisers. The County reserves the right to
contract with other appraisers if, in the opinion of the Equalization Director, the Company will not com-
plete the services required by this Agreement within the specified time limits. The County may adjust
and reduce the number of appraisals and charges authorized under this Agreement accordingly.

26. Certification of Authority to Sign Agreement. The persons signing on behalf of the
parties certify by their signatures that they are duly authorized to sign this Agreement on behalf of said
parties and that this Agreement has been authorized by said parties.

Page 5 of 6


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the authorized representatives of the parties hereto have fully ex-
ecuted this instrument on the day and year first above written.

Sami Khoury, Chairperson Date
HuronCountyBoardof Commissioners

a

theple 1. [fhafire, 4 -17 G0?

Wade Mazure, CAM® III : Date

APPROVED AS TO FORM FOR COUNTY OF HURON?
COHL, SFOKER & TOSKEY, P.C,

By: DONALD J. KULIANER

On:

Ne Clientifluron Co\Agreements\Wade Mazure\Wade Mazure Appraisal Contract ri. (sent 10 CHient).docx

Page 6 of 6


No. 26-

RESOLUTION
To: The Honorable Board of Commissioners
Huron County
Michigan

WE, the FINANCE COMMITTEE, respectfully beg leave to submit the following resolution for
your consideration:

WHEREAS, state law dictates that a study must be done in every property classification in every
jurisdiction annually; and

WHEREAS, Huron County remains without an on-staff appraiser; and

WHEREAS, Jason Daniels, Equalization Director, is recommending to this Board that Huron
County contract with Great Lakes Assessing Services LLC to complete appraisal studies in the
Commercial and Industrial class properties, which would otherwise be completed by Equalization
Department staff, to determine an estimate of the fair market value of selected properties for the 2026
Equalization Study to determine the 2027 starting base. Said contractual work not to exceed $32,240;
now

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Huron County enter into a contract with Great Lakes
Assessing Services LLC to complete 2026 commercial and industrial appraisal studies as required of the
Huron County Equalization Department.

Respectfully submitted,

FINANCE COMMITTEE

Mary E. Babcock, Chairman

John Hunt, Vice Chairman

Joe Murphy, Member Dated: May 12, 2026

VOICE / ROLL CALL VOTE:
COMMISSIONER YES NO ABSENT COMMISSIONER YES NO _ABSENT
SAMI KHOURY a a a JOHN HUNT a a a
KURT GEIGER a a Q JOE MURPHY a a a
J. SCOTT MAUST a Q a MARY E. BABCOCK ia a a
STEVE VAUGHAN a a a

RESOLUTION: Q ADOPTED Q DEFEATED Q TABLED
































































