                                                 REGULAR MEETING
                                         LENOX TOWNSHIP BOARD OF TRUSTEES
                                                 FEBRUARY 2, 2026

 1.        CALL TO ORDER:                                                     6:32 PM
           MEMBERS PRESENT:                                                   Reeder, Gurley, Sutherland, Marino, Rosseel
           ATTORNEY PRESENT:                                                  Addis, Ewles, Saif, White
           RESIDENTS AND GUESTS PRESENT:                                      45
 2.        PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
 3.        APPROVAL OF MEETING AGENDA
Motion: Gurley    Support: Rosseel
Motion to approve the Agenda for February 2, 2026. All Ayes. Motion passes.
 4.    APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion: Sutherland Support: Marino
Motion to approve the minutes of January 12, 2026 Board of Trustees Meeting. All Ayes. Motion passes.
 5.    PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS
Supervisor Reeder reported that there has been social media rumors regarding a data center. There is an item on this Agenda to consider a
moratorium on new data center applications. At this time, there has been no data center applications presented to the Township, or any plans
for one.
The proposed amendment to the Macomb County Solid Waste Management Plan is handled by Macomb County Solid Waste Planning
Committee; they will be holding a Public Hearing on the amendment on Wednesday, February 18, 2026 at 9:00 AM at the Macomb County
Administration Building.
 6.    PUBLIC COMMENT
L. Rosseel, 25589 26 Mile Road, thanked everyone for their kind words, thoughts, and prayers regarding the recent loss of her Mother. She
continued with comments regarding the lack of information from landfill employees and Lenox officials about a proposed landfill expansion.
She requested stipulations to address ongoing issues on Gratiot Avenue, such as clean up and a traffic light.
D. Haag, 3940 County Line, remarked on the lack of information regarding the landfill expansion and future closure in the Master Plan, stating
that reducing property taxes would be a good use of tipping fees.
G. Eisen, 68111 Pashalk Road, commented on a landfill flyer that was mailed with the tax bill, questioning who covered the postage cost.
7.   PUBLIC HEARING
2026 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT FUNDS (CDBG)

1.    OPEN PUBLIC HEARING
Motion: Reeder    Support: Rosseel
Motion to open the 2026 Community Development Block Grant Fund Public Hearing at 6:41 PM.
Roll Call Vote: Reeder- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Marino- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.


                                                                                                                                        1
2.   CASE SUMMARY
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow reported that for 2026 Lenox Township is slated to receive $3,400.00 in Community Development Block
Grant Funds. $3,570.00 has been requested as follows:
                              Senior Chore Program $1,500.00, mandatory allotment
                              Interfaith Volunteer Caregivers $180.00,
                              MCREST $1,890.00
There were no additional requests made to Township Officials or staff.
3.   PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no Public Comments at this time.
4.   CLOSE PUBLIC HEARING
Motion: Gurley Support: Rosseel

Motion to close the Public Hearing for the 2026 Community Development Block Grant Funds at 6:43 PM.
Roll Call Vote: Gurley- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Marino- Aye, Sutherland- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.
5.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES DISCUSSION
There was no additional information discussed at this time.
8.    CONSENT AGENDA
All items listed under this Consent Agenda are considered routine by the Township Board and will be enacted by one motion. According to
established Township meeting rules, there will be no separate discussion of these items, unless a member of the Board or public so requests
at or prior to the meeting, in which event the chair of the meeting may remove such item(s) from the Consent Agenda for discussion and
consideration under Agenda Item No. 9, below. Approval of the Consent Agenda shall be by a majority roll call vote of those present and
voting. Under the Consent Agenda are items, a. Public Safety Report, b. EMS Report, c. DPW Report, d. Code Enforcement Report, e.
Assessing Department Report, f. Engineer Report, g. Planner Report, h. Library Report, i. Senior Center Report, j. Supervisor’s Report, k.
Treasurer’s Report, l. Orders and Bills, m. Trustees Report, n. Clerk’s Report.
Clerk Gurley explained that there are $87,518.07 in invoices and bills to be approved at this time.

Motion: Sutherland Support: Rosseel
Motion to approve the Consent Agenda and the Orders and Bills in the amount of $87,518.07.
Roll Call Vote: Sutherland- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Marino- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.
9.   ITEMS REMOVED FROM CONSENT AGENDA
There were no items removed from the Consent Agenda at this meeting.
10. UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no Unfinished Business to complete at this meeting.
11. NEW BUSINESS
     a.   2026 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT FUND (CDBG) RECOMMENDATION
Supervisor Anthony Reeder remarked that Interfaith Caregivers requested $180.00 and the remaining $1,720.00 be allotted to the Lenox
Township Senior Center.

Motion: Reeder Support: Sutherland

Motion to approve the allocation of the 2026 CDBG Funds in the following manner:
Interfaith Volunteer Caregivers        $180.00
Lenox Township Senior Program          $1,720.00
Roll Call Vote: Reeder- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Marino- Aye, Gurley- Aye. Motion passes.



                                                                                                                                     2
    b.   WASTE MANAGEMENT WASTE AND RECYCLING CONTRACT PROPOSAL
Chantel LaForest, Waste Management representative, reported that a five-year renewal contract proposal is in front of the Board to collect
waste and recycling. Collection would be similar to what is currently done. One bulk item would be allowed per week; residents would be
required to schedule ahead for a bulk pickup.
Trustee Rosseel inquired if the residents would be provided a larger cart.
LaForest stated that the cart would be the same size that has been provided for some time to each residential address in the Township.
Waste Management has begun to deploy the automated side load trucks for recycling pickup. An audit is to be conducted to see which homes
do not currently utilize Waste Management carts.
Trustee Marino asked if Waste Management staff could expand the pickup of trash along Gratiot Avenue.
LaForest remarked that staff is sent out by the end of the day that it is reported to pick up blowing trash from Waste Management Trucks or
other waste haulers.
Supervisor Reeder explained that a traffic signal has been wanted for some time. He and former Trustee Scott Clifford worked with MDOT to
get a traffic study conducted at 29 Mile Road and Gratiot Avenue. Reeder was told that there was not enough traffic at that intersection to
garner a traffic study. He has engaged State Representatives, Senators, and spoke to people in the Governor’s Office with no support. MDOT
has complete control of that intersection; Macomb County Department of Roads has no jurisdiction. Reeder traveled with New Haven Officials
to Lisa McLain’s Office to try to get this before Congress for funding; that would not even go through.
Trustee Marino suggested that more telephone calls would be in order as it is a dangerous intersection.

Motion: Sutherland     Support: Rosseel

Motion to approve the Waste Management waste and recycling contract beginning July 1, 2026 and concluding June 30, 2031. The cost will
be $21.01 per unit per month for the first year, increasing by 4% each year.
Roll Call Vote: Sutherland- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Marino- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Gurley- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.
    c.   GREAT LAKES WATER AUTHORITY SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT PROPOSAL
DPW Superintendent Cam Trombly reported that Chesterfield Township experienced a water main break in July of 2025 that affected the
Lenox Township water supply. With the re-pressurization of their system, a sudden pressure increase caused a Township line to break.
Trombly began a claim for reimbursement, the result of that claim is the Settlement and Release Agreement is before the Board for discussion.

Motion: Sutherland Support: Gurley

Motion to accept the Settlement and Release Agreement between Lenox Township and Great Lakes Water Authority, settling the cost of
the water break that occurred on July 16, 2025, as recommended by DPW Superintendent Cam Trombly.
Roll Call Vote: Sutherland- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Marino- Aye, Reeder- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

   d.    MACOMB COUNTY PURCHASE OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS COMMITTEE REQUEST
John Rhein, representing Macomb Purchase of Development Rights Committee (PDR) explained that there are six northern townships that
make up the PDR Committee, being, Armada, Bruce, Lenox, Ray, Richmond, and Washington Townships. The committee is requesting that
Lenox Board of Trustees consider pledging $500 for the coming fiscal year to continue the support of preserving farmland properties.

Motion: Reeder Support: Sutherland

Motion to approve the $500 commitment to the Macomb County Purchase of Development Rights Committee for the coming fiscal year, to
continue the support of preserving farmland properties.
Roll Call Vote: Reeder- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Marino- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

    e.   DATA CENTER MORATORIUM RESOLUTION
Supervisor Reeder reported that this proposed Resolution would establish a four-month moratorium on data center proposals; this proposal
could extend the moratorium for an additional four months if necessary. The Planner would work with the Planning Commission to craft a

                                                                                                                                       3
zoning ordinance, approve it and then send it to the Board of Trustees for their approval.
Trustee Marino requested that the Board receive a synopsis every 30 days on the status.
Trustee Rosseel inquired if the Master Plan provides an area for data centers.
Reeder explained that data centers are not named specifically but may be able to fit in existing Light Industrial or Heavy Industrial Zoning.

Motion: Marino Support: Rosseel

Motion to accept the four-month moratorium on data centers, with a 30 day progress report.
Roll Call Vote: Marino- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Gurley- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.
   f. TOWNSHIP EMPLOYEE HEALTHCARE PROPOSAL
Mary Madaus, Human Resources Department, detailed that this year she has focused on employee longevity and organizational stability.
The current Blue Cross Blue Shield Insurance Plan for employees is structured with the Township covering 80%, the employee covering 20%,
and the employee is 100% responsible for optical and dental. Life insurance coverage ranges from $5,000 to $10,000 depending on the job
title, at the cost of $13,070 monthly. Presently no life insurance is offered for firefighters.
Option one: same coverage as last year, 80/20 split, life insurance increased to $25,000 for all employees, including firefighters, dental and
optical 100% covered, and a $350 stipend for employees not utilizing insurance coverage. This option would save Lenox $361.39 per month,
due to the larger group.
Option two: 90/10 split for the employee, 80/20 for family members, $25,000 life insurance for all full-time employees including firefighters,
100% dental and optical, and a $375 stipend.
Option three: 100% employee paid medical coverage, family members 80/20, $25,000 life insurance for all, 100% dental and optical, with a
$400 stipend.
Madaus recommended the following: employees with seniority of 20 or more years would be offered Option three
                                        employees with less than 20 years would be offered Option two
She explained that it would be comparable to a step-up program to reward longevity; the cost would be $840.45 more than what the Township
currently spends on insurance, divided between the 40 employees who would benefit from this, comes to $21.00 per person.
Trustee Rosseel asked for clarification that the proposed coverage would apply to full-time staff only. He believes there is a Township policy
of a 90 day probationary period before firefighters can begin health insurance or benefits.
Madaus reported that this coverage applies to full-time staff only.
Reeder reported that benefits for firefighters begin only after a successful 90 day probationary period.

Motion: Reeder     Support: Sutherland

Motion to accept the Human Resources Department recommendation with a combination of Option two and Option three.
Roll Call Vote: Reeder- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Marino- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Rosseel- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow thanked the Board for reviewing employee health insurance, staffing, employee retention, and setting forth
life insurance for the Township Firefighters and First Responders.
g. DPW SUPERINTENDENT ADDITIONAL CERTIFICATION SALARY PROPOSAL
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow reported the DPW Superintendent Cam Trombly has successfully completed continued education and
passed the examination to earn an S2 Classification Certification. There are several classifications for public water employees, such as S6,
S5, and S4, the more training that an employee gets, the lower the number becomes. That extra training has historically transferred into a
rate per hour increase. Trombly is responsible for the preservation of Lenox Township drinking water. Each time the standard of knowledge
is increased, the rate has increased as well. He recommended a $1.50 per hour increase retroactive to the date of the exam passing.
Treasurer Sutherland inquired how often the Lenox Township water is tested.
Trombly explained there are multiple tests done every month for bacteria and chlorine residue, as well as quarterly tests that are done for
disinfected byproducts.

                                                                                                                                         4
Motion: Reeder Support: Rosseel
Motion to approve the increase of $1.50 per hour to the Superintendent Cam Trombly, as he recently passed the drinking water certification
exam as recommended by the Supervisor’s Office.
Roll Call Vote: Reeder- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Marino- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.
h. LENOX TOWNSHIP BUILDING OFFICIAL LETTER OF RESIGNATION ACCEPTANCE REQUEST
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow explained that some time ago it was requested that the operations in the Building Department be modified.
On January 23, 2026, Lenox Township Building Official Dennis Lemieux rendered his resignation. Lemieux has served the Township for more
than 10 years; his dedication, knowledge, and commitment has been a tremendous asset throughout that time. The Township extends sincere
appreciation for his years of service, wishing him the best in his future endeavors. It is the recommendation of the Supervisor’s Office and the
Human Resources Department to accept his resignation.

Motion: Rosseel Support: Gurley

Motion to accept the resignation of Dennis Lemieux as of January 23, 2026.
Roll Call Vote: Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Marino- Aye, Sutherland- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.
i. LENOX TOWNSHIP BUILDING OFFICIAL FORMAL HIRE REQUEST
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow reported that the open Building Official position must be filled. Presently, the same person who was hired in
October to work with Lemieux and would like to take over and be the Building Department Official. He has been assisting the department
over the last several months and consistently exceeds expectations. His contract would mirror the one-year contract that the previous Building
Official had.
Trustee Rosseel inquired about the wording in the contract - negotiable medical insurance for the part-time official.
Grabow stated that medical insurance is a negotiated item, as was utilizing their personal vehicles. Under state law, the Building Official must
be classified as an employee. Mr. Lemieux’s classification changed from contractual to an employee with a signed contract for four hours a
day, Monday through Thursday. Previously, personal vehicles could be utilized, however, liability insurance and indemnification was required.
Presently, it is required that Township equipment be utilized whenever available.

Motion: Sutherland Support: Marino

Motion to approve the hiring of the backup Building Inspector, Kurt Sengstock, as the Lenox Township Building Official using the same one-
year contract previously utilized by the former building official.
Roll Call Vote: Sutherland- Aye, Marino- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Rosseel- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.
12.     PUBLIC COMMENT
L. Rosseel, 25589 26 Mile Road, commented on the public hearing process of the landfill expansion, extra trash pickup on Gratiot, and truck
driver awareness regarding road signage.
N. Bianchi, 37444 30 Mile Road, commented on the data centers, the moratorium, and purchase agreements.
D. Haag, 3940 County Line, commented on Consent Agenda Reports and transparency.
G. Eisen, 68111 Pashalk Road, commented on the county solid waste committee, proposed landfill expansion, tax bills, the township website,
and Facebook.
J. Clauw, 64480 Gratiot, commented on proposed landfill expansion, widening Gratiot, a traffic light, and data centers.
M. Drzewiecki, 31500 Donovan Drive, commented on the proposed landfill expansion, the prison, a data center, water contamination, and a
traffic light.
J. Rhein, 31370 32 Mile Road, reported on behalf of the Purchase of Development Rights Committee, thanking the Board for their commitment.
He continued with comments on traffic patterns, MDOT, and safety hazards.
D. Cox, 34951 29 Mile Road, remarked on landfill operations, tire flush out system, and accidents at 29 Mile and Gratiot.
Brandon, 34880 32 Mile Road, remarked on data centers, social media communication, landfill operations, and transparency.

                                                                                                                                          5
13.   CALL FROM THE BOARD
Trustee Rosseel commented that Blake’s Orchard on Armada Center Road has parking lots on the north and south side of the road. Several
years ago, at their own expense, they put in a traffic light there. Armada Center is a County Road, not a State Road. Maybe Waste
Management would be a good neighbor and have a traffic light installed.

14. ADJOURNMENT
Motion: Reeder Support: Sutherland
Motion to adjourn the Meeting at 7:42 PM. All Ayes. Motion passes.



Respectfully submitted,                                       Respectfully submitted.




Michelle Gurley, Clerk                                        Carol A. Swantek, Recording Secretary




                                                                                                                                6
