LI
77

(2 Saugatuck
Ya Township

Saugatuck Township
Committee of the Whole Minutes
Tuesday, August 11, 2026, at 11:00 a.m.
Saugatuck Township Hall
Meeting held in person

Call to Order: Clerk called the meeting to order at 11:05 a.m.

Roll Call:

Present: Supervisor Bigford, Clerk Osman, Treasurer Helmrich, Trustee Aldrich
Absent: Trustee Marcy

Also Present: Manager DeFranco and Community Development Coordinator White

Approval of Agenda:
A Motion was made by Aldrich to approve the agenda as presented. Supported by
Osman. Motion carried 4-0 by voice vote.

Public Comment:
None.

Presentations:
None.

Action Items:
1. Resolution 2026-15 Authorizing ballot proposal for millage for roads and other
infrastructure
a. Manager DeFranco noted that two millages are set to expire in December of 2026

and the Township wants to put it on the November 2026 ballot.
A Motion by Helmrich to adopt Resolution No. 2026-15, a Resolution
Authorizing Ballot Proposal Language for Millage for Roads and Other
Infrastructure, as presented. Supported by Aldrich. Motion carried 4-0 by roll call
vote.

Discussion Items:
1. Lead Service Line Potholing Change Order No. 1 and Payment App. No. 2
a. Board reviewed the change order to cover work for Plummers Environmental
Services.
2. Brownfield Plan
a. Board reviewed a proposed Brownfield Plan for the Enclave Project.
3. DWSRF Registered Municipal Advisor and Counsel Proposals
a. Board reviewed the proposals from Bendzinski & Company Financial Advisors
and Dickinson Wright to provide the professionals services required for the
Township’s participation in the Michigan Drinking Water State Revolving Fund
(DWSRF) Lead Service Line Replacement Program.
4. Data Center Moratorium Extension

Page 1 of 3


a

@

(Zs Saugatuck
Ya Township

?

a. Board reviewed a three-month extension of the temporary moratorium on the
acceptance of new building permit and zoning applications for data center
development.

. Fire District Restrictive Covenant

a. Board reviewed the consideration for Fire Safety Waiver and Indemnity
Restrictive Covenant Agreement between Saugatuck Township, the Saugatuck
Township Fire District, and Riverside House, LLC.

. Consent Agreement for Sanitary Sewer Service
a. Board reviewed a consent agreement for sanitary sewer service between

Saugatuck Township, the City of Saugatuck, and the Saugatuck Township Fire
District to permit the Saugatuck Township Fire District to connect to the City of
Saugatuck’s public sanitary sewer system on Maple Street.

Sewer Lateral Payment Agreements

a. Board reviewed two agreements for the installation of sanitary sewer laterals in
conjunction with the City of Saugatuck’s Maple Street reconstruction project,
where the Township would initially pay the City for the cost of the lateral
installation and be reimbursed by the respective property owners.

Saugatuck City Sewer Connection Agreement
a. Board reviewed a proposed consent agreement for sanitary sewer service between

Saugatuck Township and City of Saugatuck, which would allow a parcel located
on Blue Start Highway in the Township to connect to the City’s sanitary sewer
systems on Maple Street.

MNRTF Grant Agreements
a. Board reviewed two project agreements with the Michigan Department of Natural

Resources for grants awarded through the Michigan Natural Resources Trust
Fund (MNRTF) Program.

10. HCSP Amendment

a. Board reviewed an amendment to the MERS Healthcare Savings Programs
(HCSP), which would increase employee and employer contribution from 0.5%
1%.

11. Noise Ordinance

a. Board reviewed a proposed Ordinance Amendment (No. 2026-05) to amend Sec.
14-117(d) of the Township Code of Ordinances to prohibit heavy equipment noise
between the hours of 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. within 600 feet of a residential area. The
Board decided they wish not to change the noise ordinance at this time and the
item shall be removed from the agenda.

Public Comment:

None.

Adjournment: Bigford adjourned the meeting at 12:21 p.m.

Page 2 of 3


Saugatuck
Township

MOTIONS

1, A Motion was made by Aldrich to approve the agenda as presented. Supported by Osman.
Motion carried 4-0 by voice vote.

2. A Motion by Helmrich to adopt Resolution No. 2026-15, a Resolution Authorizing Ballot

Proposal Language for Millage for Roads and Other Infrastructure, as presented. Supported
by Aldrich. Motion carried 4-0 by roll call vote.

Respectfully,

Daniel DeFranco, Township Manager

I, Cindy Osman, Township Clerk, certify that these minutes were approved on September 9,
2026 by the Township Board.

Mol. le 2u

indy, spain, Township Clerk Date

Page 3 of 3
