STATE OF MICHIGAN
COUNTY OF WASHTENAW
DEXTER TOWNSHIP

Dexter Township Resolution # 26-705

RESOLUTION ADOPTING DATA CENTER APPLICATION MORATORIUM

RECITALS

A. Dexter Township (“Township”) has a zoning ordinance enacted in accordance with the
Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, MCL 125.3101 (“MZEA”) and the zoning ordinance states at Section 31.15
“The Township Board may adopt a moratorium...on the acceptance, processing, or issuance of zoning
permits or other applications to temporarily defer or delay development.”

B. Recently, there has been a voluminous surge of inquiries and applications to develop large
data centers throughout Washtenaw County, the State of Michigan, and the United States as a whole.
Reliable evidence indicates that data centers can have an immense ecological footprint and cost once they
are constructed and operating, including a tremendous consumption of ground water and electrical energy,
and that they reduce the amount of agricultural land available for necessary and beneficial agricultural
production and activity.

Cc. The Township is currently undertaking a Master Plan review and update regarding all land
uses in the Township and the Township finds it prudent and necessary for the public health, safety, and
welfare of its residents to study the short and long-term agricultural and ecological impacts and costs of
data center development in the Township to ensure that no serious consequences to Township residents,
property, and agricultural and natural resources result from data center development in the Township.

D. Temporary moratoria are an essential tool to ensure successful community planning and
development, especially when evidence exists that a particular land use or activity is likely to cause very
serious consequences to valuable and necessary natural resources.

E. Considering the complexity of the subject matter and that data centers are an emerging
industry experiencing a period of rapid, large-scale development, and the time necessary to identify and
review the potential impacts of data center development in the Township, to prepare draft ordinance
provisions and use standards, to consider the implications on Township resources as well as those of other
nearby communities, to continue the review and update of the Township’s Master Plan related to data center
development, to conduct public hearings, and to provide members of the public with adequate opportunity
to examine this issue and provide input to the Township, it is anticipated that the review and potential
actions related to amending the Township’s police power ordinances, zoning ordinance or Master Plan will
require at least 180 days.

F. The Township finds it cannot feasibly and responsibly evaluate and process applications
to construct data centers until the above articulated reviews and studies are undertaken and considered, and
regulations and amendments have been prepared, considered, and enacted, if necessary.

G. The Township finds that it is in the best interests of the health, safety, and welfare of the

Township residents and its resources to adopt a 180-day moratorium on all requests seeking approval to
construct and operate data centers in the Township.

4920-0727-2591_1



RESOLUTION

IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED:

1. This moratorium affects the development of data centers in Dexter Township.
2 The intent and purpose of the moratorium is articulated in recitals A. through G. above.
3, The 180-day moratorium on all requests seeking approval to construct and operate data

centers in the Township is hereby adopted and shall take effect immediately upon
adoption and expire at midnight on the 180" day after adoption, unless extended as
permitted by Section 31.10 of the Dexter Township Zoning Ordinance and paragraph 5
below.

4. During the 180-day moratorium, neither the Planning Commission nor the Township
Board nor any administrative official, consultant, or other agent of the Township, shall
process, accept, or otherwise consider requests seeking approval to construct and operate
data centers in the Township, or issue any zoning permit to that effect; and

a. This Resolution may be extended one time for an additional 180 days upon duly adopted
resolution of the Township Board, which shall outline i) that the conditions necessitating
the moratorium still exist and ii) that reasonable progress being made to address the need
for the moratorium.

RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.

Resolution seconded by Board Member: Trustee Nolte

Roll call vote: Supervisor Scott, Clerk Stamboulellis, Treasurer Metz
Trustees: Sanders, Sikkenga, Abbott, Nolte

Yeas — 7

Nays — 0

Abstain — 0

Absent — 0

Tally Y = 7; N = 0; Abstain 0 =; Absent 0 =

The Supervisor declared the resolution adopted

CERTIFICATE

The undersigned, being the duly elected and acting Clerk of the Township of Dexter hereby certifies that the
foregoing resolution was duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Dexter Township Board at which a quorum was
present on the 17" day of February, 2026, and that the members voted thereon as hereinbefore set forth.

K Ar

Michelle Stamboulellis, Clerk Lonnie Scott, Township Supervisor

4920-0727-2591_1
