WILLIAMSTOWN TOWNSHIP
INGHAM COUNTY, MICHIGAN
ORDINANCE NO. 60

ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING DATA CENTER MORATORIUM

At a regular meeting of the Township Board of Williamstown Township, Ingham County,
Michigan, held at 4990 Zimmer Rd., Williamston, Michigan 48895 on the 11th day of
February 2026, at 6:30 p.m., the following Ordinance was offered by Township Board
Member, Treasurer VanErp and supported by Township Board Member, Trustee
Brinker.

An ordinance to enact a temporary moratorium for a period of one (1) year,
subject to an extension by resolution, on the permitting, consideration,
approval, location, construction, and/or installation of any Data Center
facilities.

WHEREAS, due to concerns from the public and Township officials about appropriate
regulations for the increasing amount of Data Center developments across Michigan, and
to regulate Data Center development within the Township; and

WHEREAS, Data Center means a facility used primarily for the storage, management,
processing, and transmission of digital data, which houses computer or network
equipment, systems, servers, appliances and other associated components related to
digital data operations. The facility may also include air handlers, power generators, water
cooling and storage facilities, utility substations, and other associated utility infrastructure
to support sustained operations at the Data Center; and

WHEREAS, the typical physical characteristics of Data Centers include, but are not
limited to the following: (1) power systems; (2) cooling systems (3) battery energy storage
energy systems (4) use of equipment to cool the hardware and operating space; and/or
(5) power generators; and

WHEREAS, the Township's zoning ordinance, as currently written, does not define,
address, or provide any regulations for Data Centers or regulate any similar use fitting the
description above; and

WHEREAS, the Township has a legitimate purpose in addressing the proper design, size,
location, and operation of a Data Center in the Township; and

WHEREAS, the amount of water and energy consumed by, and noise produced by, Data
Centers raises concerns that necessary regulations may be required to protect the public
health, safety, and general welfare; and

WHEREAS, the Township is reasonably concerned future Data Centers, without proper
regulations, would be established in inappropriate or inadvisable locations within the
Township; and


WHEREAS, the Township is desirous of studying the localized impacts of Data Centers
and assessing its regulations to implement an appropriate approach for addressing and
mitigating such impacts within the Township in order to protect the public health, safety,
and general welfare of the Township; and

WHEREAS, studies regarding the impacts of data centers are constantly evolving and
present complex regulatory issues and thus the time to consider and assess the
regulation of Data Centers within the Township will take several months; and

WHEREAS, it is appropriate to forestall such issues for the Township and to enact a
temporary moratorium on such Data Centers for one (1) year or until any necessary
regulations can be enacted; and

WHEREAS, the Township determines that the adoption of this ordinance, which is
necessary to preserve the public health, safety, and general welfare by preventing the
inappropriate location and establishment of Data Centers in the Township during the time
needed to study and review, due to conditions within the Township.

NOW, THEREFORE, Williamstown Township, Ingham County, Michigan, Ordains:

Section 1. Title: This Ordinance shall be known and cited as the Williamstown Township
Data Center Moratorium.

Section 2. Definition: Data Center means a facility used primarily for the storage,
management, processing, and transmission of digital data, which houses computer or
network equipment, systems, servers, appliances and other associated components
related to digital data operations. The facility may also include air handlers, power
generators, water cooling and storage facilities, utility substations, and other associated
utility infrastructure to support sustained operations at the Data Center.

Section 3. Moratorium: The Township enacts a temporary moratorium on the permitting,
consideration, approval, location, erection, construction, and/or installation of all Data
Centers in the Township for one (1) year, subject to a future extension by resolution, or
the Township’s implementation of regulations governing Data Centers. For the purposes
of this ordinance, Data Center encompasses all like operations, whether or not referenced
in the Williamstown Township Zoning Ordinance.

Section 4. Severability: The provisions of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be
severable and if any part is declared invalid for any reason by a court of competent
jurisdiction it shall not affect the remainder of the Ordinance which shall continue in full
force and effect.

Section 5. Repeal: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this Ordinance
are hereby repealed.

Ordinance #60 Data Center Moratorium — Williamstown Township 2


Section 6: Waiver: In the event that the Township Board decides by resolution to extend
this moratorium, and a landowner will suffer immediate and irreparable harm for the
duration of the extension by resolution, or such an extension otherwise violates applicable
provisions of the state or federal constitution or other applicable law, a landowner may
apply in writing for a waiver of the extended moratorium from the Township Board. At a
public hearing held on such an application, the landowner must bear the burden of
demonstrating immediate and irreparable harm as a result of the extended moratorium.
The Township Board, upon a sufficient showing, may grant a waiver of the extended
moratorium to the degree necessary to avoid the demonstrated immediate and
irreparable harm.

Section 7. Effective Date: This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after publication.

YEAS: Supervisor Poth, Clerk Cleveland, Treasurer VanErp, Trustee Brinker, Trustee
Duffy, and Trustee Steinberg.

NAYS: None.
ABSENT: Trustee Creagh.
ORDINANCE DECLARED ADOPTED.

Ron Poth, Williamstown Township Supervisor

Ordinance #60 Data Center Moratorium — Williamstown Township 3


CERTIFICATION
| hereby certify that:

1. The above is a true copy of an Ordinance adopted by the Williamstown Township
Board at a duly scheduled and noticed meeting of the Township Board held on
February, 2026 pursuant to the required statutory procedures.

2. A summary of the above Ordinance was duly published in the Lansing City Pulse,
a newspaper that circulates within Williamstown Township, on February 25, 2026.

3. Within 1 week after such publication, | recorded the above Ordinance in a book of
ordinances kept by me for that purpose, including the date of passage of the
ordinance, the names of the members of the Township Board voting, and how each
member voted.

4. | filed an attested copy of the above Ordinance with the Ingham County Clerk on
February 12, 2026.

ATTESTED:

Robin A. Cleveland, Williamstown Township Clerk

Ordinance #60 Data Center Moratorium — Williamstown Township 4


WILLIAMSTOWN TOWNSHIP
INGHAM COUNTY, MICHIGAN
ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING DATA CENTER MORATORIUM

Ordinance No. 60
Notice of Adoption

Please take notice that on February 11, 2026 the Township Board of Williamstown
Township adopted Ordinance No. 60, which imposes a one (1) year moratorium on the
permitting, consideration, approval, location, erection, construction, and/or installation of
Data Centers in the Township in order to allow appropriate time to study and potentially
adopt revised regulations governing Data Centers. Copies of the Ordinance may be
obtained from Robin A. Cleveland, Williamstown Township Clerk, at 4990 Zimmer Rd.,
Williamston, Michigan 48895 during regular business hours.

Published by Order of the Township Board
Williamstown Township, Ingham County

Robin A. Cleveland, MiPMC
Williamstown Township Clerk
4990 Zimmer Rd.

Williamston, Michigan 48895
clerk@williamstowntownship.com

Publication Date: February 25, 2026

Ordinance #60 Data Center Moratorium — Williamstown Township 5
