                                 CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF WHITE LAKE
                Approved Minutes of the Regular Board of Trustees Meeting
                                         February 17, 2026

CALL TO ORDER
Supervisor Kowall called the meeting to order at 6:30 P.M. He led the Pledge of Allegiance.


ROLL CALL
Clerk Noble called the Roll:

Present:
Rik Kowall, Supervisor
Mike Roman, Treasurer
Anthony L. Noble, Clerk
Scott Ruggles/ Trustee
Steve Anderson, Trustee
Andrea Voorheis, Trustee
Liz Smith, Trustee


Also Present:
Sean O'Neil, Community Development Director
J. David Feitchner, Fire Chief
Hannah Ken nedy-G alley. Recording Secretary


APPROVAL OF AGENDA
Supervisor Kowall requested the removal of item 9C from the agenda.


It was MOVED by Supervisor Kowall, seconded by Treasurer Roman to approve the agenda as
corrected. The motion CARRIED with a voice vote: (7 yes votes).


PUBLIC COMMENT
John Hunt, 871 Oxhill Drive, requested the Board consider an ordinance to prohibit ICE from entering
public buildings within the Township, as well as private homes or buildings without a court order.


CONSENT AGENDA
     A. REVENUE AND EXPENSES
     B. CHECK DISBURSEMENTS
     C. DEPARTMENT REPORT-POLICE
     D. DEPARTMENT REPORT-FIRE
     E. DEPARTMENT REPORT - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
     F. DEPARTMENT REPORT-TREASURER

It was MOVED by Clerk Noble, seconded by Trustee Ruggles to approve the consent agenda as
presented. The motion CARRIED with a voice vote: (7 yes votes).


MINUTES
     A. APPROVAL OF MINUTES - SPECIAL BOARD MEETING, JANUARY 15, 2026
     B. APPROVAL OF MINUTES - REGULAR BOARD MEETING, JANUARY 20, 2026
Charter Township of White Lake
Regular Board Meeting
Approved Minutes of February 17, 2026 Page 2 of 6


Trustee Anderson requested the minutes of January 20, 2026 reflect under his Trustee comments the
word Supervisor and not Sergeant.


It was MOVED by Trustee Voorheis, seconded by Trustee Anderson to approve the minutes of
January 15, 2026, as presented and January 20,2026, as amended . The motion CARRIED with a
voice vote: (7 yes votes).


OLD BUSINESS
    A. CONSIDERATION OF PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN APPROVAL -EDENDALE

Director O'Neil reviewed the site plan changes with the Board.


Trustee Voorheis asked Craig Piasecki of PH Homes how many units per acre the plan is proposing. Mr.
Piasecki said around 3 units an acre.


Trustee Anderson asked Director O'Neil if the Planning Commission identified the number of units that
they would be comfortable with. Director O'Neil said no, and the Planning Commission was considering
whether the latest proposed plan was acceptable.


Treasurer Roman asked Director O'Neil what the Master Plan would call for in the area unit wise. Director
O'Neil said somewhere around 2-8 units, but as the units per acres increase, the lot sizes decrease to
accommodate. In that instance, RM-1 or RM-2 zoning would be applicable.


Trustee Smith stated she is still opposed to the project due to the high density and small lot sizes.


Trustee Ruggles stated 109 units is from the applicant's parallel plan. The parallel plan would require the
property to be zoned Rl-D and wouldn't allow as much input from the Board.


Supervisor Kowall stated change is inevitable, and the best solution is to get the most from the change
that will benefit the community. He stated that the proposed plan leaves about 28 percent of open
space. He thinks that is a good amount.


Treasurer Roman asked Director O'Neil how far west Cedar Island will be paved. Director O'Neil stated
it will be paved just short of the Carla Hills entrance.


Trustee Smith stated that the Board does have the option to give a number of units, and she wanted to
see the number come below 100 units.


Jim Eppink, on behalf of PH Homes, stated he spent a lot of time reviewing the Master Plan, and stated
the issue isn't density, but housing opportunities. He stated that homes on bigger lots are not in demand
anymore, according to SEMCOG and other outside agency data.


Trustee Smith stated the Master Plan is a planning guide, not a tool the Township is beholden to.
Director O'Neil stated during the Master Plan Open House, 100 people were in attendance as well 300
survey respondents who participated in the process.
Charter Township of White Lake
Regular Board Meeting
Approved Minutes of February 17, 2026 Page 3 of 6


Joyce Wochek, 6259 Caya Way, spoke in opposition of Edendale. She stated the proposed plan is not
compatible with the surrounding neighborhood lots. The proposed plan is too dense. She added the
proposed plan will not be beneficial for the residents in the area.


Larry West, 6385 Stonewood Drive, spoke in opposition of Edendale. He stated his concern is for safety
of the children on the sidewalks.


Dylan Rithauer, 1950 Reidsview, spoke in opposition of Edendale. He said he moved to White Lake to
live on a lot with acreage. He shared statistics that showed the demand for bigger lots versus smaller
ones. He shared concerns about traffic congestion.


Ryan Gavin, 1211 Bogie Lake Road, spoke in opposition of Edendale. He stated even with the proposed
reductions to the plan; the fundamental issues remain, density and traffic concerns.


Gene Kula, 1203 Cedar Meadows Drive, spoke in opposition of Edendale. He stated the Planning
Commission has reviewed the proposal several times and has reached the same conclusion every time.
He asked the Board to uphold the Planning Commission's recommendation.


Brian Bivio, 6303 Stonewood Drive, spoke in opposition of Edendale. He stated residents are aware
change needs to come to the Township, but not with the proposed density. He stated the Board owes it
to its residents to consider their concerns.


Deana Mason Pena, 1861 Carla Hills Drive, spoke in opposition of Edendale. She stated the proposed
price of the houses didn't reflect affordability to her. She reiterated concerns about traffic congestion
and a decrease in home value.


Brian Simmon, 1247 Bogie Lake Road, spoke in opposition of Edendale. He stated the traffic is unsafe
on Bogie Lake Road now. He said the plan is garbage and recommended the Board deny it.


Rob Paciotti, 6289 Caya Way, spoke in opposition of Edendale. He stated the houses at Preserve at
Hidden Lake fit with the surrounding area regarding lot size but that it doesn't compare with Bogie and
Cedar Island Roads area. He stated the proposed plan is not what residents want.


Nancy Boellea, 6185 Whispering Meadows, said the added traffic is going to be an issue.


Mr. Eppink stated a traffic study was completed and submitted to the Township, as well as RCOC. He
added that RCOC requested a center left turn Jane to be added to Cedar Island, as well as accel/decel
lanes. The developer has agreed to the requested road improvements, which will be an added safety
benefit. He stated again that the housing product the plan provides is the product that the market needs.


Trustee Ruggles asked Director O'Neil if the rezoning could move forward without the approval of the
preliminary site plan. Director O'Neil said the rezoning will not proceed without the approval of the site
plan.
Charter Township of White Lake
Regular Board Meeting
Approved Minutes of February 17, 2026 Page 4 of 6


Trustee Smith asked Mr. Eppink if the density is lowered, will the sidewalks remain as public benefit. Mr.
Eppink said if the density is reduced, the amenities will have to be reconsidered.


It was MOVED by Trustee Smith, seconded by Trustee Voorheis, to deny the preliminary site plan for
Edendale Crossing. The motion FAILED with a roll call vote: (5 no votes) (Voorheis/yes, Kowall/no,
Ruggles/no, Anderson/no, Roman/no, Noble/no, Smith/yes).


It was MOVED by Treasurer Roman, seconded by Clerk Noble, to approve the preliminary site plan for
Edendale Crossing, subject to all staff and consultant comments being addressed. The motion CARRIED
with a roll call vote: (5 yes votes) (Voorheis/no, Kowall/yes, Noble/yes, Roman/yes, Smith/no,
Ruggles/yes, Anderson/yes).


    B. F\ I RST READ I NG; E D ENDALE REZONING REQUEST

It was MOVED by Treasurer Roman, seconded by Clerk Noble to rezone the properties associated with
the Edendale Crossing project from Rl-A (Single Family Residential) and AG (Agricultural) to PD
(Planned Development). The motion CARRIED with a roll call vote: (4 yes votes). (Voorheis/no,
Kowall/yes, Noble/yes, Anderson/yes, Smith/no, Ruggles/no, Roman/yes).


    C. CONSIDERATION OF PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN APPROVAL - JAX KAR WASH

Director O'Neil stated that the revised preliminary site plan presented posed no objection from the
Community Development Department. The applicant revised the driveway plan after taking the Board's
safety concerns with the project into consideration.


Trustee Smith thanked the applicant for listening to the Board and taking safety concerns into account.


Trustee Voorheis echoed Trustee Smith's statement and said she was happy to see the revisions to the
plan.


It was MOVED by Supervisor Kowall, seconded by Trustee Anderson to approve the preliminary site
plan for Jax Kar Wash. The motion CARRIED with a roll call vote: (7 yes votes). (Kowall/yes, Noble/yes,
Roman/yes, Smith/yes, Voorheis/yes, Anderson/yes, Ruggles/yes)


NEW BUSINESS
    A. FQIA AP P EAL - J OSHUA HUNTER

It was MOVED by Supervisor Kowall, seconded by Trustee Ruggles to grant the appeal from
Joshua Hunter and reverse the de facto denial created by the alleged non-response. The
motion CARRIED with a voice vote: (7 yes votes).


     B. RESOLUTION #26-003; TO APPROVE P25 SIMULCAST SYSTEM INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT
         BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF OAKLAND AND THE TOWNSHIP OF WHITE LAKE
Charter Township of White Lake
Regular Board Meeting
Approved Minutes of February 17, 2026 Page 5 of 6


Supervisor Kowall stated the agreements are in place with the County to be able to use their
equipment. The agreement was reviewed by Attorney Hamameh.


It was MOVED by Treasurer Roman, seconded by Supervisor Kowall, to approve Resolution #26-003;
to approve P25 Simulcast System Interlocal Agreement between the county of Oakland and the
Township of White Lake. The motion CARRIED with a voice vote: (7 yes votes).


    C. REMOVED

     D. RESOLUTION #26-004; TO APPROVE MORATORIUM ON THE ISSUANCE OF APPROVALS OR
         PERMITS FOR DATA PROCESSING CENTERS

Supervisor Kowall stated that data centers are a controversial subject matter.


Attorney Hamameh stated she was asked to prepare the resolution. The resolution will give Township
staff and consultants time to research and review the ordinance as it relates to data centers.


Clerk Noble said data centers have become a hot button topic in surrounding communities. He said
there are too many unknowns now, and it will be best for the residents for staff to do more diligence on
the subject.


Trustee Voorheis asked Attorney Hamameh if the moratorium could be extended to a year. Attorney
Hamameh stated there needs to be justification for that type of extension, but there are provisions in
the resolution that will grant more time to the moratorium if further research is needed, so long as
progress is made.


Treasurer Roman said he wanted to see short term and immediate term results from surrounding
communities with data centers. He shared concerns about the stress data centers would put on the
electrical grid.


Dylan Wittenaur ,1950 Reidsview, stated his support of the moratorium on data centers.


It was MOVED by Trustee Anderson, seconded by Clerk Noble to approve Resolution #26-004; To
Approve Moratorium on The Issuance of Approvals or Permits for Data Processing Centers. The
motion CARRIED with a voice vote: (7 yes votes).


     E. RESOLUTION #26-002; GOOSE NEST/EGG DESTRUCTION - LAKEWOOD VILLAGE

It was MOVED by Supervisor Kowall, seconded by Treasurer Roman, to approve Resolution #26-002;
Goose Nest/Egg Destruction - Lakewood Village. The motion CARRIED with a voice vote: (6 yes
votes. Trustee Smith/no.


FYI - CIVIC CENTER UPDATE

Roman stated there are studs at Township Hall that will need to be repaired. Visqueen is up
Charter Township of White Lake
Regular Board Meeting
Approved Minutes of February 17, 2026                                                  Page 6 of 6


at the Public Safety building, Township Hall is a week behind in that scenario. The roof system at
Township Hall has been underway.


TRUSTEE COMMENTS

Trustee Anderson thanked the public and those watching tonight's meeting at home. He thanked
Dublin Senior Center hosting his HOA meeting. Invocation invitations were sent out last Friday.


Trustee Ruggles stated the Planning Commission's meeting this Thursday is canceled; they will meet
again March 5, 2026.


Trustee Smith thanked the residents who came out today to speak, and stated she tried to take their
opinions into account. She stated she has tried for years for more safety along Union Lake Road. The
library placed a donation leaf in honor of the former director, Larry Ostroskvi.


Treasurer Roman stated that property taxes can be dropped off until midnight tonight. Any tax payments
made after March 1, 2026, must be paid through the County. He thanked all the residents in attendance.


Trustee Voorheis stated she attended the Pontiac Lake Road visioning meeting; there will be a round a
bout at Pontiac Lake and Fisk Roads. She encouraged those on the lake to be safe and when in doubt,
stay off the ice.


Clerk Noble thanked all who came out this evening.


Supervisor Kowall said the Board is sometimes faced with controversial decisions and they try to make
the best decisions with the information at hand. The White Lake Township Police Foundation is offering
a scholarship for high school students, more information can be found on their website.


ADJOURNMENT
It was MOVED by Supervisor Kowall, seconded by Trustee Smith, to adjourn at 8:41 P.M. The motion
CARRIED with a voice vote: (7 yes votes).




RJJ</Kowall/ Sirpervisor                                             ^Ftffony L. Noble, Clerk, MiPMC
CHarter Township of White Lake                                       Charter Township of White Lake
