                                                REGULAR MEETING
                                        LENOX TOWNSHIP BOARD OF TRUSTEES
                                                   MAY 4, 2026

 1.     CALL TO ORDER:                                                       6:31 PM
        MEMBERS PRESENT:                                                     Reeder, Gurley, Sutherland, Marino, Rosseel
        ATTORNEY PRESENT:                                                    Addis
        RESIDENTS AND GUESTS PRESENT:                                        121
 2.     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
 3.     APPROVAL OF MEETING AGENDA

Motion: Rosseel Support: Marino
Motion to approve the Agenda for May 4, 2026, moving item n. to be discussed after 11. All Ayes. Motion passes.
 4.    APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion: Rosseel Support: Marino
Motion to approve the minutes of the April 6, 2026 Meeting. All Ayes. Motion passes.

 5.    PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS
There were no Public Announcements at this time.

 6.    PUBLIC COMMENT
B. Meissen, 57481 River Oaks Drive, commented on transparency, FOIA, social media, and respect.
J. Davidson, New Haven, spoke of mistrust and investigation.
R. Pannell, 57367 Wingham Street, remarked on the Master Plan, Urban Sprawl, and data centers.
E. Czarnik, 10249 Lindsay Road, commented on moratorium, data center ordinance, Planning Commissioners.
T. Samander, spoke on the dump, the prison, and drinking water.
B. Oakley, 29185 27 Mile Road, remarked on Board of Trustees duties, and service.
John, commented on data center moratorium.
M. Dzewiecki, 31500 Donovan Drive, spoke on the I-94 District, AI center, and moratorium extension.
Drew, New Baltimore, commented on data center moratorium timeline, open AI, and industrialized zones.
A. Welsh, remarked on misinformation, transparency, and censure.
Valerie, spoke on constitutional oaths, accountability, and State of Michigan rules.
M. Shabo, remarked on data centers, home displacement, and moratorium extension.
J. Warren, 57917 Werderman, commented on community work, transparency, and data centers.
Sara, Lenox Township, spoke on data centers, energy costs, and eminent domain.
V. Fouchia, commented on moratorium, eminent domain, and the landfill.
K. Carrier, 27 Mile Road and Bates, remarked on air quality, dirt roads, and sidewalks.
T. Wolff, 58157 Thomas Drive, spoke on proposed data centers and the unknown.
28 Mile Road Resident, commented on the importance of clean abundant water.


                                                                                                                           1
S. Safranek, New Haven, remarked on health issues, ecosystem, and data centers.
Jessica, Lenox Township, spoke on Macomb County Heritage Alliance, Richmond Historical Society, and ancient artifacts.
K. Gardner, Decora Park, commented on data center, groundwater baseline testing, and water contamination.
L. Hartem, New Haven, remarked on Dublin Ohio data center showroom, I-94 area, moratorium, and the Master Plan.
K. Hill, Lenox Township, spoke on data center interior control systems.
J. Halford, 28 Mile Road, commented on moratorium and data center.
B. Egor, remarked on research, remote jobs, and lack of benefits.
K. Little, New Baltimore, spoke on moratorium extension.
A. Hofman, commented on data center lack of benefits and carbon footprint.
R. Buchanan, New Haven, remarked on data center and infrastructure.
R. Connor, 61211 Omo Road, spoke on moral, ethical responsibility and project development.

Supervisor Reeder called a five-minute recess.

7.    CONSENT AGENDA
All items listed under this Consent Agenda are considered routine by the Township Board and will be enacted by one motion. According to
established Township meeting rules, there will be no separate discussion of these items, unless a member of the Board or public so requests
at or prior to the meeting, in which event the chair of the meeting may remove such item(s) from the Consent Agenda for discussion and
consideration under Agenda Item No. 8, below. Approval of the Consent Agenda shall be by a majority roll call vote of those present and
voting. Under the Consent Agenda are items, a. Public Safety Report, b. EMS Report, c. DPW Report, d. Code Enforcement Report, e.
Assessing Department Report, f. Engineer Report, g. Planner Report, h. Library Report, i. Senior Center Report, k. Treasurer’s Report, l.
Orders and Bills, m. Trustees Report, n. Clerk’s Report.
Clerk Gurley reported that there are $755,095.84 in invoices to be approved at this meeting.

Motion: Sutherland Support: Rosseel
Motion to approve the Consent Agenda and the Orders and Bills in the amount of $755,095.84.
Roll Call Vote: Sutherland- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Marino- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Reeder- Aye. Motion passes.

8.   ITEMS REMOVED FROM CONSENT AGENDA
     j. Supervisor’s Report
          UHY, LLP. 2024-2025 Audit Report
Karen Shafik, partner with UHY, LLP., shared an overview of the 2024-2025 Audit, for the fiscal year that ended June 30, 2025. Lenox
Township obtained an unmodified opinion, which is the best opinion a municipality can receive and what the Township strives for each year.
Shafik agreed to speak to any Board Member if questions arise.

9. UNFINISHED BUSINESS
     There was no Unfinished Business to complete at this meeting.
10. NEW BUSINESS
     a.    FIRE DEPARTMENT TRUCK REPAIR REQUEST
Richmond Lenox EMS Director Jeff White explained that Engine 1 needs service. The mechanic assured White that he would be able to use
the engine until the repair was approved. Vendor Burby’s Diesel Repair, LLC. submitted a quote totaling $2,971.80 to repair the system.

Motion: Sutherland      Support: Rosseel
Motion to approve the Fire Department Truck repair at the cost of $2,971.80, through Burby’s Diesel Repair, LLC., as recommended by EMS
Director Jeff White.
Roll Call Vote: Sutherland- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Marino- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.


                                                                                                                                     2
    b.   ROAD SIGN INSTALLATION PROPOSAL
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow reported that after much conversation back and forth with Macomb County Roads, 48 road signs have
been purchased and delivered. After getting approval from Macomb County Corporate Counsel, there are two companies that are able to
put the posts and signs in. Once the signs are placed, the Sheriff Department will write tickets for semi-trucks that do not have business on
those roads. Two quotes were submitted to complete this project, as follows:
                                 Action Traffic Maintenance, Inc.         $21,280.00
                                 Village of New Haven DPW                 $10,723.20
Trustee Rosseel inquired if this project was going to be paid for by a grant,
Public Safety Director Jeff White clarified that a grant covered eight solar-powered speed limit signs that will be erected at the same time.
The installation of those signs was not part of the grant.
Grabow explained that two quotes were provided to the Board, showing the cost increase in a five-month timeframe. MISS DIG would verify
and stake underground utilities, then Department of Roads would stake the proper sign locations. Lenox DPW Department is unable to erect
them efficiently without renting specialized equipment and working weekends that would cost the Township excess funds.
Trustee Marino remarked that the Village of New Haven quote is $10,000 less than the other quote.
Clerk Gurley reported that she contacted the Village twice requesting an updated quote and has gotten no reply up to the present time.

Motion: Marino Support: Gurley

Motion to table this until the next meeting.
Roll Call Vote: Marino- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Sutherland- Nay, Reeder- Aye. Motion passes.
    c.   MACOMB COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF ROADS 2026 DUST CONTROL PROGRAM PROPOSAL
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow detailed the Macomb County Department of Roads 2026 Dust Control Program. Macomb County will be
applying two applications of well brine at no cost to Lenox Township gravel roads. Application rate is 3,000 gallons per mile at .29 cents per
gallon. If additional applications are requested, the Township would be required to pay 100% of the cost, $47,328. per application. Scheduling
would be at the sole discretion of the Department of Roads; however, Lenox is able to recommend dates. The first application in May, second
application end of June or beginning of July, third application mid-August, and late September if there is a need for a fourth application.
Three applications were used last year

Motion: Sutherland Support: Marino

Motion to approve the 2026 Macomb County Dust Control Program, with Macomb County providing the first two applications at no cost to
Lenox Township, and two additional applications at the cost of $47,328,00 each, totaling $94,656.00.
Roll Call Vote: Sutherland- Aye, Marino- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Rosseel- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passed.
   d. INTERNAL SUPPRESSION SYSTEM INSPECTION PROPOSAL
DPW Superintendent Cam Trombly explained that the fire control vendor that maintains the fire extinguishers and suppression system has
given notice that the internal pipe inspection and the hydrostatic test for the FDC is due. Two quotes were submitted as follows:
                         Adam’s Fire Protection                            $1,717.20
                         Systematic Fire Protection, Inc.                  $1,990.00
Trombly recommended the Township’s normal vendor, Adam’s Fire Protection, at the cost of $1,717.20.

Motion: Gurley Support: Marino
Motion to approve Adam’s Fire Protection to proceed with the mandatory five-year inspections and testing to maintain compliance with the
State of Michigan Fire Codes, at the cost of $1,717.20, as recommended by DPW Superintendent Cam Trombly.
Roll Call Vote: Gurley- Aye, Marino- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Rosseel- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.



                                                                                                                                        3
   e.    MICHIGAN BUILDING CODE (MBC) AMENDMENT CHAPTER 712
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow remarked that the Michigan Building Code, Electrical Code, Mechanical Code, and Plumbing Code have
been reviewed by the Board of Trustees for 30 days, and all are to be considered for approval at this time. There has been no requests for
changes or modifications.

Motion: Marino     Support: Sutherland
Motion to adopt the Michigan Building Code Amendment (MBC)- Chapter 712, as recommended by the Building Inspector Kurt Sengstock.
Roll Call Vote: Marino- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Reeder- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

   f.    MICHIGAN ELECTRICAL CODE (MEC) AMENDMENT CHAPTER 713
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow stated that the Michigan Electrical Code Amendment (MEC)- Chapter 713, is recommended for approval.

Motion: Gurley   Support: Sutherland
Motion to approve the Michigan Electrical Code Amendment (MEC)- Chapter 713, as recommended by the Building Official Kurt Sengstock.
Roll Call Vote: Gurley- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Marino- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

   g. MICHIGAN MECHANICAL CODE (MMC) AMENDMENT CHAPTER 714
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow explained that the Michigan Mechanical Code Amendment (MMC)- Chapter 714 has been recommended
for approval by the Building Official Kurt Sengstock.

Motion: Sutherland Support: Rosseel
Motion to approve the Michigan Mechanical Code (MMC) Amendment - Chapter 714, as recommended by the Building Inspector Kurt
Sengstock.
Roll Call Vote: Sutherland- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Marino- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Gurley- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

    h. MICHIGAN PLUMBING CODE (MPC) AMENDMENT CHAPTER 715
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow reported that the Michigan Plumbing Code Amendment (MPC)- Chapter 715 has been recommended for
approval.

Motion: Sutherland    Support: Gurley
Motion to approve the Michigan Plumbing Code Amendment (MPC)- Chapter 715, as recommended by the Building Official Kurt Sengstock.
Roll Call Vote: Sutherland- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Marino- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

    i.    PARKS AND RECREATION / SENIOR CENTER STAFF WAGE MODIFICATION
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow explained that last month the Board approved moving Alexa Swiatkowski from part-time seasonal to regular
part-time. When that modification was approved, it was inadvertently overlooked to modify her wages. It is proposed to increase her wages
from her current $17.00 per hour to $18.42 per hour with the rest of the staff for that area, to be effective as of April 6, 2026, when the
modification was approved.

Motion: Sutherland Support: Marino
Motion to approve the wage increase for employee Alexa from $17.00 per hour to $18.42 per hour, effective April 6, 2026, when she was
approved to part-time status, as recommended by the Supervisor’s Office.
Roll Call Vote: Sutherland- Aye, Marino- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Reeder- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.
    j.    PARKS AND RECREATION PART-TIME CONCESSION STAFF PROPOSAL
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow reported that the interview process is starting to hire three summer interns that the Board approved on
April 6, 2026. It has been realized that the needs of the concession stand in the park has increased and that several intern applicants are
qualified and willing to work as part-time concession stand help. The proposal is that the Board of Trustees allow two people from the
submitted resumes to work in the Parks and Recreation Department in the Concession stand and for special events as needed. These



                                                                                                                                     4
positions would be paid the starting rate of $17.00 per hour for this season, no benefits, no cost of living increase, through the end of the
year.

Motion: Marino Support: Rosseel
Motion to approve two part-time individuals at $17.00 per hour for the 2026 season.
Roll Call Vote: Marino- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Sutherland- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

    k.   FACT FINDING TRIP AUTHORIZATION
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow stated that last month the Planning Commission recommended that there were a number of people
interested in a fact finding trip to tour a data center to gain information. After contacting several centers, one in Dublin, Ohio allows public
tours. Three quotes were gathered as follows:
              Mercedes Sprinter                14 passenger bus to Dublin and return               $2,520.00
              All Star Transportation          14 passenger bus to Dublin and return                $2,790.00
              AAA Metro Services               14 passenger sprinter to Dublin and return          $2,490.00
The recommendation is to authorize AAA Metro Services to drive up to 14 people from Lenox to Dublin, Ohio and back at the cost of
$2,490.00.
Trustee Rosseel inquired who would be invited on this trip.
Grabow reported that the Planning Commission, the Board of Trustees, as well as supporting individuals, such as Public Safety and possibly
the DPW Superintendent.
Clerk Gurley questioned if businesses closer to Lenox could be contacted.
Grabow remarked that if it is possible to find one closer to Lenox that would be less costly to travel, that would be ideal. The thought is to
secure the transportation and continue to try to find one to tour that would be closer to the Township.

Motion: Rosseel
Motion to approve the cost of $2,490.00 for AAA Metro Services to take a bus trip to Dublin, Ohio to look at facilities.
Motion died for lack of support.

Motion: Marino Support: Sutherland
Motion to cancel the Dublin trip completely.
Roll Call Vote: Marino- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Reeder- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

    l.   CENTARIS TIME BLOCK PURCHASE
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow reported that this is a routine process to purchase additional time for computer service through Centaris.
The cost would be $14,500 for 100 hours, which is separate from their Contract time. This allows IT Staff to be available to Township Staff
at all times, should anyone need additional service outside of the regular contract day. This cost is significantly reduced in comparison to
having an in-house IT Department.

Motion: Gurley Support: Marino
Motion to approve the quote for Centaris at the cost of $14,500 for a 100-hour time block.
Roll Call Vote: Gurley- Aye, Marino- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Reeder- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

    m. WORKSHOP REQUEST
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow explained that since the fiscal year has changed, an interim budget is in place for the next six months. The
staff usually receives wage increases in July, and the point of a workshop is for the Board of Trustees to discuss increases for the staff. A
suggested date is Monday, May 11, 2026 to begin at 3:00 PM.

Motion: Reeder Support: Rosseel
Motion to schedule a workshop for Monday, May 11, 2026 to begin at 3:00 PM.
                                                                                                                                            5
Roll Call Vote: Reeder- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Marino- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

Supervisor Reeder called a five-minute recess.

11. CLOSED SESSION
      1.    TO DISCUSS THREATENED LITIGATION INFORMATION WITH THE TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
Motion: Marino Support: Rosseel
Motion to enter into Closed Session at 8:27 PM.
Roll Call Vote: Marino- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Reeder- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

Motion: Gurley Support: Sutherland
Motion to return to Open Session at 9:56 PM.
Roll Call Vote: Gurley- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Marino- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

      n.    MORATORIUM EXTENSION REQUEST
Motion: Marino Support: Rosseel
Motion to continue with the moratorium that is in place and employ the Planning Commission to get the Board of Trustees the Ordinance
before the four-month moratorium runs out.
Roll Call Vote: Marino- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Nay, Reeder- Aye, Sutherland- Aye. Motion passes.


12.        PUBLIC COMMENT
B. Meissen, commented on moratorium, standard template, and GLWA.
T. Samander, spoke on land broker, probate entanglement, and lawsuits.
Resident remarked on emergency personnel appreciation, leadership, moratorium extension, and strong community.
M. Drzewiecki, 31500 Donovan, commented on property owners, and excess dust treatment on dirt roads.
Elise, commented on local government disappointment, economic disadvantages, and environmental harm.
K. Reimer, New Haven, spoke on noise concerns, agricultural conservation, as well as engaged in personal attacks of the Officials.
Citizen remarked on career stepping stones, corporate interests, and moratorium.
Citizen remarked on recall effort and ballot initiative.
L. Turner, Village of New Haven, remarked on organizing.
Jessica, spoke on political aspirations.
R. Pannell, 57367 Wingham Street, commented on public hearing, and moratorium timeline.
B. Oakley, remarked on moratorium extension and lack of listening.
Trustee Marino expressed concern about the lack of progress on the proposed ordinance.
E. Suddon commented on the moratorium, the extension, feedback, and disrespect.
Matt spoke on wishing negatives on fellow humans.
K. Carrier, remarked on doing what the community wants and being heard.
G. Eisen, 68111 Pashalk Road, spoke on draft ordinance update and moratorium extension.
Kirsten commented on closed session process.
B. Williams, New Haven, remarked on public interaction and data centers.
13.    CALL FROM THE BOARD
Trustee Marino stated that he would like to see the Planning Commission get the job done with the ordinance.
Trustee Rosseel explained that a parcel was purchased in 2010, it is in an LLC; he is not the only owner.
Supervisor Reeder reported that he voted based on the recommendation of the Township Attorney.
Treasurer Sutherland explained that she would like the ordinance to be in place as soon as possible.

                                                                                                                                     6
 Citizen spoke on ordinance timeline, respect, and public pressure.
 L. Ptak-Geisler, Bates and New Haven Road, remarked about breaking down trust and conflict of interest.
 Trustee Rosseel reported that the Township Attorney advised him that he had every right to voice his opinion and to place a vote. No one
 on the Board of Trustees is forcing anyone to sell their property.
 L. Hartford, remarked on Board members fiduciary conflict of interest and exclusionary zoning.
 G. Rodzik, commented on timelines, eminent domain, and protection of people.
 Township Attorney Addis remarked that at this point, there is no conflict requiring Board Member disqualification. This process is to make
 an ordinance, not construct buildings.
 14. ADJOURNMENT
 Motion: Sutherland Support: Rosseel
 Motion to adjourn the Meeting at 10:26 PM. All Ayes. Motion passes.




Respectfully submitted,                                          Respectfully submitted.




Michelle Gurley, Clerk                                           Carol A. Swantek, Recording Secretary




                                                                                                                                     7
