                             Casco Township Board of Trustees
                              Minutes, Regular Board Meeting
                             Monday, April 20th, 2026, 7:00 PM
Call to Order: Overhiser called the meeting to order at 7:00 and led in the Pledge of
Allegiance.
Present: Overhiser, Clevenger, Ridley, Campbell, & Fleming
Absent: None
Public Comment:
    • Casco Resident, Peter, commented on Township zoning ordinances, specifically the
       minimum square footage a lot can be in Casco Township. He questioned what the
       number has to do with the health, welfare, or safety of the public.
    • Tom Siver, who is currently running for District Judge for the 57th Judicial Court,
       introduced himself to the Board and residents.

Allegan County Sheriff’s Dept: No Report.
SHAES: SHAES Captain, Jim Quinn, reported to the Board that SHAES recently took part in
an 8th Grade Career Day to talk to kids early about career opportunities with SHAES. The
Department is also planning a Paramedic Course for Fall 2027. The State is now again
allowing in-house training, so they are excited to be able to take advantage of that again.
There will be a multi-sport event in Mid-May at Lake Arvesta that SHAES plans to be on
hand and help with. They are usually gifted a $5,000 donation from the organizers as a
trade for their services on the day of the event. They also plan to again attend and help at
Grid Life in Geneva Township. Quinn also reported that the department's physicals have
just finished up and went very well, with everyone passing. The vehicle lifts that were
recently purchased are in and functioning. Also, the boiler has been replaced, inspected,
and works well at Station 1, which is our Casco station. Brad Lubbers asked Captain Quinn
about changes to come to South Haven with the new lifeguard program coming soon.
Chief Hinz is working closely with the new Director to work out the details of this major
change.
Allegan County Commissioner Brad Lubbers was in attendance and reminded residents
about the following Household Hazardous Waste Events:
                       Saturday, May 16th, 9a-12p at Hardings Wayland
                       Saturday, June 13th, 9a-12p at Fennville City Hall Parking lot
                       Saturday, October 3rd, 9a-12p at Otsego Department of Public Works
There will also be three tire collection days in the County this August:
                       Saturday, August 1st, 9a-12p at Salem Township Transfer Station
                       Saturday, August 11th, 9a-12p at Otsego Department of Public Works
                       Saturday, August 25th, 9a-12p at Otsego Department of Public Works
Lubbers also noted that on March 19th, the contract for Senior meals was amended to give
more flexibility and options for those senior meals. It now closely mimics what the agency
had been doing before the changes. He shared numbers on the past two weeks that reflect
the majority of Seniors receive between 5-7 meals per week, 14 people receive meals 11-14
times per week. 24 people receive less than 5 per week. It was also noted that most
people receive a delivery 1-2 times per week. It was noted that each Senior goes through
an assessment for food scarcity and it is through that assessment process that these
needs are determined. The County plans to continue to evaluate and make changes when
necessary. Lubbers also pointed out that this year's Senior millage that will be on the
August ballot is a straight renewal with no increases. They have dropped the mills to stay
the same amount as this year’s assessment.
Library: No report.
Clerk: Clerk Ridley presented the minutes from the March 26th Special Board meeting to
the Board for approval. A motion was made by Campbell, supported by Fleming. All votes
in favor.
Treasurer: Clevenger presented the balances of the funds as follows:
                       • 101 General Fund $1,240,840.03
                       • General Fund CD $200,000.00
                       • 204 Road Fund $989,300.32
                       • Road Fund CD $200,000.00
                       • 206 Fire Fund $701,362.76
                       • Fire Fund CD $200,000.00
                       • 207 Police Fund $124,426.01
                       • 208 Parks Fund $188,102.71
                       • 209 Cemetery Fund $97,304.19
                       • 290 Senior Fund $65,050.32
                       • 703 Tax Collected Fund $1,845,577.57
Leaving a total balance of $5,851,963.91. Clevenger made a motion to approve checks
30152-30185 for $501,335.56. Supported by Fleming. All votes in favor.
Planning Commission: Trustee Fleming reported that this month, the ADU or Accessory
Dwelling Unit Conversation continued to be discussed.
Parks & Recreation: No meeting in March. Trustee Campbell did update the Board on the
work accomplished by the Friends of Casco Nature Preserve group on Sunday, April 19th,
for their first workday of the year. Julie Cowie updated the Board on the 4 grants the
Township has currently applied to for the Beach Access project. They are as follows:
                       MNRTF $400K
                       Land & Water Conservation $490k
                       LDSI $250k
                       Egle High-water $75k
It was noted that if the Township receives either the MNRTF Grant or the Land & Water
Conservation Grant, we will drop the remaining grant, as we will not have enough match
money to proceed with both. In terms of fundraising, we have currently collected $29k.
$12,900 of that is from the Lakeshore Women Who Care group, $10k from the ACCF match,
and the remaining balance is from personal contributions.
ZBA: No Report.
Senior Advisory Committee: Linda Teeter reported to the Board that there are currently 10
Casco Seniors who receive meals from Allegan County. Allegan Senior Services is
currently in the process of trying to create a system to track the numbers for each
township, so we know who is using what services in the County. Julie Cowie questioned
where Seniors should go in Allegan County to get information on emergency home repairs.
Trustee Campbell said there is no fund for that in Allegan County, but that people should go
to the Commission on Aging in Allegan because they generally have help for those who
have a very low income. Generally, either the Commission on Aging or Jen at Allegan
County Senior Services will be the best contacts. Trustee Campbell also noted that all the
feedback she has heard on the new meals program has been very positive. Trustee Fleming
inquired about the difference in numbers we had seen from VanBuren Senior Services
regarding Casco Senior participation. He feels like even with the higher numbers, we are
still paying more than double for the services provided. Fleming also noted that the
invitation for the Casco Dedication Ceremony seemed to be very heavily weighted towards
VanBuren County Senior Services, giving them all the credit for our Township Hall and this
project. He felt this was very inaccurate regarding the facts. A discussion was held
regarding the verbiage used in the invitation, and it was noted that during the dedication,
Supervisor Overhiser did a commendable job of thanking the taxpayers and acknowledging
Casco’s contribution to the space. This invitation was to acknowledge the State
Appropriation from Joey Andrews' office to contribute to our Senior space. Overall, it was
agreed that a better job needs to be done to make sure our Seniors know the opportunities
available from both Allegan County Senior Services and Senior Services of VanBuren
County.
Short Term Rentals (STR): No Report.
SHAWSA: No Report.

OLD BUSINESS:

Sanchez Outdoor Gathering/Noise Variance: This was tabled back in March so that
Supervisor Overhiser could touch base with Officer Hoyt due to last year’s event having
prolonged noise that went on past the agreed-upon time. The initial application stated
music would end at midnight, but Carolina Sanchez was in attendance and stated that they
felt they could end the music at 11:30 pm instead. It was agreed that her phone number
would be passed on to Officer Hoyt in case there were complaints past 11:30 PM. A motion
was made to grant this Outdoor Gathering Permit by Clevenger, supported by Campbell. All
votes in favor. For the Noise variance, a motion was made by Clevenger to accept,
supported by Campbell. All votes in favor.

NEW BUSINESS:

Zoning Moratorium: This is a resolution to delay applications for data centers, solar farms,
and battery energy storage systems for 6 months. The Planning Commission has met and
approved moving forward with this moratorium. A motion was made by Clevenger,
supported by Ridley. All votes in favor. Roll call vote: Overhiser, yes. Fleming, yes.
Clevenger, yes. Campbell, yes. Ridley, yes. All votes in favor. Resolution passed.
Pay Change: Clerk Ridley asked the Board to consider a change to the pay schedule for
employees of Casco Township. The Township is currently in the process of hiring a new
employee for the Reception/Building Department Assistant position, and Ridley feels the
once-per-month pay schedule the Township uses could be problematic going forward.
Discussion was had on the economic impacts of twice/month pay versus monthly pay. Our
Payroll company, Envision Payroll, is willing to lower the base rate amount we pay for each
employee to help offset the cost of offering two payrolls each month to any employee who
wants it. On a regular month, we pay $195 for basic processing. If 10 employees decide to
take advantage of this, we would be paying $221 per month. This is a $26/month increase
at the most. A motion to accept this pay change was made by Campbell, supported by
Fleming. All votes in favor.
Hall Use Policy: Supervisor Overhiser asked the Board to begin to think about how we want
to use this new space at the Township Hall and who will be able to use it. Discussion was
had on whether we will limit use to only community groups and non-profits, as we typically
have, or if we should open it up for private rentals. There were mixed feelings from the
Board about renting, as this would require another employee to closely monitor this. A
security deposit would have to be in place to protect the space. Clevenger expressed
concerns over First Amendment rights regarding limiting uses. The Board will continue this
discussion.
Signage: With the completion of the new space here at the Township Hall, we require some
signage to help direct people within the building on where to go. Clerk Ridley presented the
Board with a quote from Signs Now in Holland. The quote is for the following Casco
signage:
                       “Welcome to Casco” Directional Sign $530.99
                        Individual Office signs $295.40
                        Aluminum Main Entrance sign $ $204.95
After setup fees and installation ($250), the total quote is for $1,306.34
Treasurer Clevenger asked if we could add an outdoor sign to his door that also directed
people to the main office, and Ridley agreed to get that added to the order. A motion was
made to purchase the signs by Campbell, supported by Fleming. All votes in favor.
Clevenger questioned the possibility of having the Treasurer’s window and counter
replaced with a sliding window and a deeper ledge. When Hall Builders returns, we will ask
them to get us a quote on how much this project would cost.
Hall Change Order: This change order is to have the Builders return and add some
electrical outlets to the South side of the building that are needed on the Senior side of the
space. The total of this change order is $1,876. A motion was made to accept this change
order by Ridley, supported by Overhiser. All votes in favor.
Salary Resolutions: The following 2026 Salary resolutions were presented to the Board for
approval:
                   • Supervisor Overhiser $49,145 Motion made by Campbell, supported
                       by Fleming. Roll call vote: Overhiser abstained. Fleming, yes.
                       Clevenger, yes. Campbell, yes. Ridley, yes. All votes in favor.
                       Resolution passed.
                   • Clerk Ridley $51,404 Motion made by Fleming, supported by
                       Clevenger. Roll call vote: Campbell, yes. Overhiser, yes. Clevener,
                       yes. Ridley abstained. Fleming, yes. All votes in favor. Resolution
                       passed.
                 •    Treasurer Clevenger $ $42,395 Motion made by Fleming, supported by
                      Campbell. Roll call vote: Clevenger abstained. Campbell, yes.
                      Fleming, yes. Overhiser, yes. Ridley, yes. All votes in favor.
                      Resolution passed.
                   • Trustee Fleming $5,854 Motion was made by Clevenger, supported by
                      Ridley. Roll call vote: Clevenger, yes. Campbell, yes. Ridley, yes.
                      Overhiser, yes. Fleming abstained. All voted in favor. Resolution
                      passed.
                   • Trustee Campbell $5,854 Motin was made by Fleming, supported by
                      Clevenger. Roll call vote: Ridley, yes. Overhiser, yes. Clevenger, yes.
                      Fleming, yes. Campbell abstained. All votes in favor. Resolution
                      passed.
Master Plan Distribution: Tabled until the Planning Commission has had a chance to
review and approve.
Land Division Act Amendment: This amendment would allow for more than 10 land
divisions on a property. Discussion was had on whether we stay where we are at 10 or
open it up to allow for more. Zoning will ultimately rule on that density. A motion was made
by Fleming to allow for more than 10 divisions. Supported by Clevenger. All votes in favor.

Public Comment:
   • Chris Barnett, the current Allegan County District Court Judge, was in attendance
       and reintroduced himself to the Board and residents. He will be running again for
       the 57th District Court Judge seat.
   • D. Campbell commented on the numbers shared by Senior Services. He also feels
       that more coordination is needed between Senior Services of VanBuren County and
       Allegan County Senior Services. He reiterated that the fewer people that Seniors
       need to contact, the better.
   • J. Cowie commented that it is hard to hear the Board from the audience. She
       recommends we invest in some sort of microphone or sound-dampening system.
       She also added that she would like the Board to consider not renting to any political
       groups or churches, because of the regularity of those weekend services.
   A quick discussion was conducted on the sound in the room and how that could be
   mitigated.

Adjournment: At 8:42 PM, a motion was made by Campbell to adjourn. Supported by
Clevenger. All votes in favor.

Minutes respectfully submitted by Rachel Ridley, Casco Township Clerk.
Casco Township Clerk
