                                                REGULAR MEETING
                                        LENOX TOWNSHIP BOARD OF TRUSTEES
                                                 AUGUST 10, 2026


 1.     CALL TO ORDER:                                                      6:30 PM
        MEMBERS PRESENT:                                                    Reeder, Gurley, Sutherland, Marino, Rosseel
        ATTORNEY PRESENT:                                                   Addis
        RESIDENTS AND GUESTS PRESENT:                                       58
 2.     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
 3.     APPROVAL OF MEETING AGENDA

Motion: Gurley Support: Marino
Motion to approve the August 10, 2026 Agenda, adding d. Fire Department Hydro Testing. All Ayes. Motion passes.
 4.    APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion: Rosseel Support: Marino
Motion to approve the minutes from July 13, 2026, and July 22, 2026. All Ayes. Motion passes.

 5.    PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS
There were no Public Announcements at this time.

 6.    PUBLIC COMMENT
M. Drzewiecki, commented on payroll, attorney fees, and website.
F. Spiga, Meadow Creek, remarked on risk assessment, security, and targets.
Speaker commented on oaths, rights, and the Constitution.
Eric, Lenox resident, remarked on Economic Development, threats, and intimidation.
Eric, Lenox Township, commented on technological collapse and data centers.
A. McCabe, Frost Road, spoke on local utility strain and long-term consequences.
Resident remarked on a map, recusing, and mulligan.
Resident commented on CRC Park, excessive noise, and loud music.
M. Shabo, Lenox, spoke on Township Planner, payroll, and data centers.
Resident commented on policy and salary.
O. Jabari, 37331 Sandstone Trail, Lenox, remarked on data centers and rezoning.
B. Oakley, 29185 27 Mile Road, remarked on duties, responsibilities, and trust.
J. Podgurski, Quail Run, commented on committee posting and reconsidering.
A. Welsh, spoke on consent agenda, policy, and transparency.
A. McGillivray, Lenox Township, spoke on utility demand and letters of interest.
Sandy, Richmond, remarked on home values, peace of mind, and conscience.
Valerie, son lives in Lenox, commented on data centers, pollution, and common law.


                                                                                                                          1
J. Hampton, Lenox, spoke on legal counsel and unenforceable ordinance.
Comment on citizen concern, stress, and information.
L. Gibson, 59599 New Haven Road, commented on master plan and I-94 Service District.
Comment on garbage can size, limitation, and contract.
7.    CONSENT AGENDA
All items listed under this Consent Agenda are considered routine by the Township Board and will be enacted by one motion. According to
established Township meeting rules, there will be no separate discussion of these items, unless a member of the Board or public so requests
at or prior to the meeting, in which event the chair of the meeting may remove such item(s) from the Consent Agenda for discussion and
consideration under Agenda Item No. 8, below. Approval of the Consent Agenda shall be by a majority roll call vote of those present and
voting. Under the Consent Agenda are items, a. Public Safety Report, b. EMS Report, c. DPW Report, d. Code Enforcement Report, e.
Assessing Department Report, f. Engineer Report, g. Planner Report, h. Library Report, i. Senior Center Report, j. Supervisor’s Report k.
Treasurer’s Report, m. Trustees Report, n. Clerk’s Report.
Trustee Marino requested that the check registry be removed from the Consent Agenda.

Motion: Marino Support: Reeder
Motion to approve the Consent Agenda, removing l. Orders and Bills and placing it down to number 8.
Roll Call Vote: Marino- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Sutherland- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

8.   ITEMS REMOVED FROM CONSENT AGENDA
l. Orders and Bills
Trustee Marino inquired why payroll was not included in the July 13, 2026 Consent Agenda.
Clerk Gurley reported that Orders and Bills come out of the Disbursement Account. Payroll comes out of a separate payroll account, which
is listed on the Treasurer’s Report under bank statements, reflecting how much came out for the month and what is left in that account.
Marino questioned if $120,043.76 was the payroll amount.
Gurley stated that was the office staff, monthly payroll, and the firefighters payroll.
Marino questioned Gurley if a data center application has been submitted.
Gurley responded that there has not been a data center application submitted.
The total Orders and Bills for the month of July was $593,833.81.

Motion: Gurley        Support: Marino
Motion to approve the Orders and Bills in the amount of $593,833.81.
Roll call Vote: Gurley- Aye, Marino- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Rosseel- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.
9. UNFINISHED BUSINESS
     A.   NORTHPOINTE STORAGE CONDITIONAL REZONING AGREEMENT EXTENSION REQUEST
Attorney Gary Gendernalik and property owner Adam Janusch were present to answer questions.
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow was directed by the Board to reach out to the former Planner Steve Cassin to clarify a document that Mr.
Gendernalik stated he had in his possession. Cassin advised that he did in fact administratively approve an amended site plan for the
Northpointe Storage Conditional Rezoning, which was based on the determination that the proposed revisions did not increase the intensity
of the development and that he would remain in full compliance with the requirements of the Lenox Township Ordinance.
Gendernalik stated that Cassin had administratively approved the modification, which was reduced by one building on the east side of the
entranceway. It also showed the sidewalk along 26 Mile Road; which would be installed. He asked that the Board of Trustees approve the
second amendment granting the extension through July 31, 2027, so as to begin the engineering process.
Trustee Marino inquired the length of time this process has been going on and whether there was an estimated start date.
Gendernalik stated that it began in 2022, COVID slowed the project down as well as the engineering firm was full, and currently a transition
is occurring.

                                                                                                                                      2
Janusch reported that he is committed to this project, as there is a lot invested in the land and the engineering to this point.
Motion: Rosseel    Support: Sutherland

Motion to approve the Northpointe Storage Conditional Rezoning Agreement Extension Request through July 31, 2027.
Roll Call Vote: Rosseel- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Marino- Nay, Gurley- Nay, Reeder- Nay. Motion failed.

Motion: Reeder Support: Marino
Motion to recommend the Northpointe Storage Conditional Rezoning Agreement Extension back to the Planning Commission.
Roll Call Vote: Reeder- Aye, Marino- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Rosseel- Nay. Motion passes.
10. NEW BUSINESS
    a.   PLANNING COMMISSION MEMBER APPOINTMENT
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow reported that there is an opening on the Planning Commission. The Supervisor’s Office received three
letters of interest, from Michelle Drzewiecki, LuAnne Kandell, and Jennifer Podgurski. Upon review of the letters and pursuant to the Michigan
Enabling Act, MCL 125.38151, the Supervisor’s Office has appointed LuAnne Kandell to the Planning Commission for a partial term expiring
on December 31, 2027, subject to the Board of Trustees’ approval.
Supervisor Reeder explained that one interest letter was submitted today before the meeting and one was caught up in the Township email
security system and quarantined.
Trustee Marino asked if this should be pushed back because an interested person’s resume was caught in email quarantine.
Supervisor Reeder stated that he feels that person would be better suited to a different board.

Motion: Reeder Support: Sutherland
Motion to approve the appointment of LuAnne Kandell to fill the open Planning Commission seat until the term expires on December 31,
2027.
Roll Call Vote: Reeder- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Marino- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.
    b.   2026 OFFICE COMPUTER REPLACEMENT PROPOSAL
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow explained that a number of computers are replaced annually by rotation, ensuring that they remain efficient
and useful to the staff. The Township IT firm, Centaris has submitted a quote for six desktop computers at the cost of &9,728.50, which
includes $85.00 in shipping costs to Centaris. The computers would be equipped with Microsoft 365 licensing and delivered to Lenox.

Motion: Marino Support: Rosseel

Motion to approve the purchase of six new desktop computers to replace six (6) six-year-old desktops from Centaris, at the cost of $9,728.50.
Roll Call Vote: Marino- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Reeder- Aye. Motion passes.
   c.    ROAD SIGN INSTALLATION UPDATE
Deputy Supervisor Mark Grabow reported that this item was approved at the July Board of Trustees Meeting, for Michigan Sign Shop to
install 48 road signs throughout the Township’s gravel roads at the cost of $8,800.00. Since that time, this business has completely gone
out of business. Big Bore Signs is out of Oakland County and has committed to do the work for the total cost of $7,875.00.
Motion: Sutherland Support: Marino

Motion to approve Big Bore Signs to install road signs at the cost of $7,875.00, as Michigan Sign Shop has abruptly closed their business
without warning.
Roll Call Vote: Sutherland- Aye, Marino- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Gurley- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.
   d.    FIRE DEPARTMENT HYDRO TESTING PROPOSAL
Public Safety Director Jeff White stated that hydrostatic testing ensures firefighter air tanks will hold proper pressure. The testing is done by
the people that provide the tanks, because tanks are all built by different manufacturers, so there are not multiple quotes for this item. This
routine preventative maintenance is completed every couple of years. The quote from MacQueen was submitted totaling $2,656.00. White
recommended that this be discussed at this meeting, as it is a matter of public safety.

                                                                                                                                          3
 Motion: Sutherland       Support: Gurley
 Motion to approve MacQueen to perform maintenance and certification of the firefighter air packs at the cost of $2,656.00, as
 recommended by Public Safety Director Jeff White.
 Roll Call Vote: Sutherland- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Marino- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Reeder- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.
 11.   PUBLIC COMMENT
 M. Drzewiecki, remarked on truth, the landfills, and the State Constitution.
 A. McGillivray, Lenox Township, commented on ethics, public trust, and leadership.
 Comment regarding governance, accountability, and responsibility.
 Comment about Oaths of Office, militia, and Planning Commission seat.
 Comment on Mexican standoff, coming together, and accountability.
 Comment on bullying, illegal practices, and greased palms.
 B. Oakley, 29185 27 Mile Road, remarked on Planning Commission seat, data centers, and tax bills.
 Comment on endangering public safety and immunity.
 Comment on risk assessment, publications, and business.
 S. Dodich, Lenox, remarked on proof, court, and the future.
 B. Meissen, 57481 River Oaks, spoke on resignation policy, social media, and posting.
 J. Hampton, Lenox Township, commented on special meeting, intimidation, and lawsuits.
 Comment regarding legacy, lawsuit, and prediction.
 D. Haag, 3940 County Line, commented on Motor Carrier support, traffic speed, and lack of safety.
 A. Welsh remarked on procedure, consent agenda, and rules.
 13.   CALL FROM THE BOARD
 Trustee Marino remarked that heckling from the public during Public Comment is not deserved; everyone has the right to be at the podium.
 Clerk Gurley commented that the lights on the Pickleball Courts turn off at 10:00 PM, would like to look into returning to a timer to allow
 additional play time.
 Trustee Marino stated that he agrees with the resident regarding County Line; he would like someone to notify the Sheriff Department to
 keep an eye out there.
 Supervisor Reeder reported that Jeff White could contact the Sheriff Department and a Macomb County Sheriff Lieutenant was present
 during this meeting.
 14. ADJOURNMENT
 Motion: Reeder Support: Marino
 Motion to adjourn the Meeting at 8:14 PM. All Ayes. Motion passes.


Respectfully submitted,                                         Respectfully submitted.




Michelle Gurley, Clerk                                          Carol Swantek, Recording Secretary




                                                                                                                                      4
