                                         Watertown Charter Township
                    May 18, 2026, Board of Trustees Regular Meeting Minutes



1. CALL TO ORDER: The meeting was called to order at 6:00PM by Supervisor Maahs with the
   Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America.

    BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Supervisor John Maahs, Clerk Carolyn Brokob, Treasurer Sue
    Biergans, Trustee Chad Cooley, Trustee Todd Hufnagel, Trustee Holly Madill, and Trustee Ron
    Overton.

    BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT: None.

    STAFF PRESENT: Township Manager Jennifer Tubbs and Township Planner Poorna
    Vemulakonda.

    PUBLIC SIGNED-IN: Peg McLeod, Rachael Therrian.

2. PUBLIC COMMENT: None.

3. ITEMS FROM COUNTY, STATE, FEDERAL, & OTHER AGENCIES: None.

4. CONSENT AGENDA:

    Motion by Trustee Cooley, seconded by Trustee Madill, to approve the consent agenda as presented.
    Motion carried unanimously.

5. AGENDA APPROVAL:

    Motion by Trustee Madill, seconded by Trustee Hufnagel, to approve the agenda as presented.
    Motion carried unanimously.

6. APPROVAL OF ADDITIONAL BILLS:

    Motion by Treasurer Biergans, seconded by Trustee Madill, to approve the additional bill list on the
    table dated May 18, 2026. Motion carried unanimously.

7. PUBLIC HEARING: None.

8. UNFINISHED BUSINESS:

   A. Resolution 5-18-2026-1 Data Center Moratorium



May 18, 2026, Board of Trustees Regular Meeting Minutes                                         Page 1 of 7
                                         Watertown Charter Township
                    May 18, 2026, Board of Trustees Regular Meeting Minutes



       Item 8A was moved to the end of the agenda by consensus of the Board.

       Motion by Trustee Madill, seconded by Trustee Hufnagel, to waive the reading of Resolution No.
       5-18-2026-1. Motion carried unanimously.

       Motion by Trustee Cooley, seconded by Trustee Hufnagel, to adopt Resolution No. 5-18-2026-1, a
       Resolution Establishing a Moratorium on the Accepting of Applications, Holding Hearings on or
       Otherwise Processing Applications for the Construction and/or Operation of Data Centers.

       Roll Call Vote: Those voting AYE were Overton, Cooley, Brokob, Hufnagel, Biergans, Madill,
       Maahs. Absent: None. Seven AYES, zero NAYS. Resolution Adopted.

9. NEW BUSINESS:

   A. 2026 Citizen of the Year Presentation – Rachael Therrian

       Rachael Therrian was named the 2026 Watertown Charter Township Citizen of the Year and the
       proclamation honoring her was read on record.

       LET IT BE PROCLAIMED, that the Watertown Charter Township Board of Trustees proudly recognizes
       and honors Rachael Therrian as the 2026 Watertown Charter Township Citizen of the Year for her
       outstanding leadership, dedication, compassion, and lasting contributions to the community.

       Rachael Therrian has demonstrated extraordinary commitment to the families and children of our community
       through her leadership and service with Wacousta Cooperative Preschool.

       Beginning her journey with the preschool in 2018, Rachael played a vital role in leading the reopening of the
       program following the pandemic and successfully transformed and expanded its services to meet the growing
       needs of local families through flexible enrollment options, expanded educational programming, and future
       childcare initiatives.

       Through her vision and determination, she has secured substantial grant funding to modernize facilities,
       strengthen nonprofit operations, and ensure high-quality early childhood education opportunities for current
       and future generations.

       Rachael has fostered a culture of mentorship, teamwork, and compassionate employment while supporting
       educators, mentoring students, and creating an environment where every child, family, and staff member
       feels valued and supported.



May 18, 2026, Board of Trustees Regular Meeting Minutes                                                   Page 2 of 7
                                         Watertown Charter Township
                    May 18, 2026, Board of Trustees Regular Meeting Minutes



       Alongside community partners, Rachael helped establish the Wacousta Block Party, now a cherished annual
       community event that promotes fellowship while raising scholarship funds to ensure educational
       opportunities remain accessible to all families regardless of financial circumstance.

       Rachael Therrian exemplifies the values of service, leadership, generosity, and community through authentic
       relationships, connecting community, and whose passion for early childhood education, nature-based
       learning, and building a strong and connected next generation continues to leave a lasting impact on
       Watertown Township.

       Beyond her professional accomplishments, Rachael Therrian is married to her supportive husband, Travis
       and mother to Miles and Charlie. She is a lifelong learner whose compassion, humor, and infectious energy
       are felt by her neighbors and the hundreds of families that have passed through her classroom’s doors.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that on this 18th day of May 2026, the Watertown Charter
       Township Board of Trustees hereby recognizes and honors Rachael Therrian as the 2026 Watertown
       Charter Township Citizen of the Year and extends sincere gratitude for her outstanding dedication and
       lasting contributions to the residents of Watertown Charter Township.

       A brief recess was taken to present the proclamation and take a photo. The award will also be
       presented to Mrs. Therrian at the Wacousta Block Party on June 6, 2026, as she will not be
       available on Memorial Day weekend.

       Motion by Trustee Overton, seconded by Trustee Madill, to adopt the proclamation honoring
       Rachael Therrian as the 2026 Watertown Charter Township Citizen of the Year. Motion carried
       unanimously.

   B. Case No 26-005 Outdoor Assembly License for the 2026 Wacousta Block Party

       Motion by Trustee Hufnagel, seconded by Trustee Madill, to approve the Outdoor Assembly
       License for the Wacousta Cooperative Preschool, for their Block Party event to take place on June
       6, 2026. Motion carried unanimously.

   C. Case No. 26-001 Special Land Use - Tzone Trucking

       Motion by Clerk Brokob, seconded by Trustee Cooley, that the Board of Trustees concurs with the
       recommendation of the Planning Commission and approves Case No. 26-001 SLU for Tzone
       Trucking LLC, for a Special Land Use Permit to allow the construction and operation of a
       trucking terminal facility at 5977 W Grand River Avenue, in Section 35 of Watertown Charter
       Township, consisting of a garage and office building, truck parking, and associated site


May 18, 2026, Board of Trustees Regular Meeting Minutes                                                 Page 3 of 7
                                         Watertown Charter Township
                    May 18, 2026, Board of Trustees Regular Meeting Minutes



       improvements, provided that conformance to modified conditions 1–13, as noted below, are
       achieved to the satisfaction of the Township Zoning Administrator as being in accordance with
       the requirements of the Watertown Charter Township Zoning Ordinance. Condition of Approval
       of Special Land Use Permit No. 26-001:

       1. The applicant shall receive approval for and maintain compliance with the final site plan.
       2. Truck parking and staging areas shall be adequately screened in accordance with Section 28-
       4.47 of the Zoning Ordinance to minimize impacts on adjacent properties.
       3. The applicant shall comply with the recommendations of the Clinton County Drain
       Commission.
       4. The applicant shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Michigan Department of
       Transportation (MDOT), including obtaining a Right-of-Way Permit.
       5. The applicant shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Southern Clinton County
       Municipal Utilities Authority (SCCMUA), including sanitary sewer standards, easements, and
       system approvals.
       6. The applicant shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Looking Glass Regional Fire
       Authority and Clinton County Sheriff ’s Department, if applicable.
       7. Outdoor lighting shall comply with Section 28-5.18 of the Watertown Charter Township Zoning
       Ordinance.
       8. Any signage shall meet the requirements of the township’s sign ordinance and permits shall be
       obtained.
       9. The applicant shall meet the requirements of the Township Building Official.
       10. The proposed use shall not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, and equipment or
       conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any person, property or the general welfare by
       reason of excessive effects of traffic, noise, smoke, fumes, glare, or odors affecting adjacent
       properties, streets, or uses.
       11. All driveways, parking areas, and loading areas shall be constructed with an improved
       surface in accordance with Section 28-5.22.4.E of the Watertown Township Zoning Ordinance.
       12. Applicant must comply with all applicable State, Federal and Township laws.
       13. Parking shall be limited to approved parking areas as shown on the approved site plan. No
       parking, storage, or staging of vehicles or trailers shall occur outside of designated and approved
       areas.
       Motion carried unanimously.

   D. Case No. 26-003 Special Land Use – House of Promise

       Motion by Trustee Cooley, seconded by Trustee Madill that the Board of Trustees concur with the
       recommendation of the Planning Commission and approve Case No. 26-003 SLU for Shari
       Montgomery of the House of Promise, for an amendment to Special Land Use Permit No. 24-03,


May 18, 2026, Board of Trustees Regular Meeting Minutes                                          Page 4 of 7
                                         Watertown Charter Township
                    May 18, 2026, Board of Trustees Regular Meeting Minutes



       to authorize expansion of the campus of the House of Promise, in a phased construction, with
       construction of a 4,323 square foot boarding facility starting within 12 months from the date of
       final approval of site plan, and construction of office building starting within 5 years from the
       date of final approval of site plan, in accordance with their existing permit to operate a private
       boarding school at 15275 Francis Road, in Section 27 of Watertown Charter Township, provided
       that conformance to conditions 1-11, as noted below, are achieved to the satisfaction of the
       Township Zoning Administrator as being in accordance with the requirements of the Watertown
       Charter Township Zoning Ordinance. Condition of Approval of Special Land Use Permit No. 26-
       003:

       1. The applicant shall maintain compliance with Variance No. 17-09 and 26-004.
       2. The applicant shall receive approval for and maintain compliance with the final site plan.
       3. The applicant shall comply with the recommendations of the Clinton County Drain
       Commission.
       4. The applicant shall comply with the requirements of the Mid-Michigan District Health
       Department.
       5. The applicant shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Looking Glass Regional Fire
       Authority and Clinton County Sheriff's Department, if applicable.
       6. Outdoor lighting shall comply with Section 28-5.18 of the Watertown Charter Township
       Zoning Ordinance.
       7. Any signage shall meet the requirements of the township's sign ordinance and permits shall be
       obtained.
       8. The applicant shall meet the requirements of the Township Building Official.
       9. The proposed use shall not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, and equipment or
       conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any person, property or the general welfare by
       eason of excessive effects of traffic, noise, smoke, fumes, glare, or odors affecting adjacent
       properties, streets, or uses.
       10. No parking on unpaved/unmarked spaces. Parking is allowed only on site plan approved
       spaces.
       11. Applicant must comply with all applicable State, Federal and Township laws.
       Motion carried unanimously.

   E. Resolution 5-18-2026-2 Franchise Fees with Lansing Board of Water and Light

       Motion by Trustee Cooley, seconded by Treasurer Biergans, to waive the reading of Resolution
       No. 5-18-2026-2. Motion carried unanimously.
       Motion by Trustee Madill, seconded by Trustee Hufnagel, to adopt Resolution No. 5-18-2026-2,
       regarding Lansing Board of Water and Light’s Collection of Franchise Fees.



May 18, 2026, Board of Trustees Regular Meeting Minutes                                          Page 5 of 7
                                         Watertown Charter Township
                    May 18, 2026, Board of Trustees Regular Meeting Minutes



       Roll Call Vote: Those voting AYE were Maahs, Cooley, Brokob, Overton, Hufnagel, Madill,
       Biergans. Absent: None. Seven AYES, zero NAYS. Resolution Adopted

   F. Resolution 5-18-2026-3 Opposing House Bill 5529-5531 and 5581-5584

       Motion by Trustee Hufnagel, seconded by Trustee Cooley, to waive the reading of Resolution No.
       5-18-2026-3. Motion carried unanimously.

       Motion by Clerk Brokob, seconded by Trustee Cooley, to adopt Resolution No. 5-18-2026-3,
       Opposing Michigan House Bills 5529–5531 and 5581–5584 (Housing Package).

       Roll Call Vote: Those voting AYE were Brokob, Cooley, Maahs, Overton, Hufnagel, Biergans,
       Madill. Absent: None. Seven AYES, zero NAYS. Resolution Adopted.

   G. Lift Station 405 Sewer Easements

       Motion by Trustee Cooley, seconded by Treasurer Biergans, to approve the sewer easements with
       Lancelot Development as presented. Motion carried unanimously.

   H. Proposed Firework Ordinance

       The board discussed two drafts of a township firework ordinance presented by the Manager.

       Motion by Clerk Brokob, seconded by Trustee Cooley, to direct staff to revise the ordinance as
       necessary on the discharge of fireworks with a permit option for firework displays outside of
       state-mandated dates, obtain review from the township attorney, and initiate the ordinance
       adoption process. Motion carried unanimously.

   I. Township Survey Questions

       The Board of Trustees discussed the survey questions and offered some amendments to the
       presented survey questions.

       Motion by Clerk Brokob, seconded by Trustee Cooley, to send reviewed questions to consultant
       for preparation of a final survey document for board review. Motion carried unanimously.

10. BOARD MEMBER AND PUBLIC COMMENT:




May 18, 2026, Board of Trustees Regular Meeting Minutes                                         Page 6 of 7
                                         Watertown Charter Township
                    May 18, 2026, Board of Trustees Regular Meeting Minutes



     Trustee Madill provided positive feedback to Planner, Poorna Vemulakonda on the new staff
     report layout.

     Clerk Brokob shared that new website for the Looking Glass Regional Fire Authority was released
     last week and thanked Deputy Clerk, Christy Sochay for all her hard work assisting LGRFA on the
     project.

     Clerk Brokob announced that she was nominated and selected as one of four finalists for the 2026
     Michigan Township Clerk of the Year award by the Michigan Association of Municipal Clerks.
     While she was not ultimately selected as Clerk of the Year, she expressed appreciation for the
     recognition from her colleagues and the honor of being considered.

     Treasurer Biergans reported that a Public Safety Revenue Sharing received in the amount of $3,311
     in which 75% must be used to fund law enforcement agency or officers. Manager Tubbs will bring a
     plan to the board for consideration.

     Supervisor Maahs confirmed that there will be a community Memorial Parade on Saturday, May
     23, 2026, at 11:00 a.m. along with Lions Club picnic and Wacousta Cemetery program.

11. ADJOURNMENT: Moved to adjourn by Trustee Cooley at 7:45PM.

Date approved: June 15, 2026

                                        __________________________   __________________________
                                        John Maahs, Supervisor        Carolyn Brokob, Clerk




May 18, 2026, Board of Trustees Regular Meeting Minutes                                       Page 7 of 7
