Casco Township

Resolution OYala (OY) 0b

Zoning Moratorium

EXCERPTS OF MINUTES

At a meeting of the Township Board of the Township of Casco, Allegan County, Michigan, held at
the Township Hall at 7104 107% Avenue, South Haven, Michigan, on the QOaeday of
April , 2026 at [:50_p.m., local time.

After certain other matters of business were concluded, the Supervisor stated the next order of
business was the consideration of a proposed Resolution concerning the establishment of a
moratorium on the issuance of zoning permits for any battery energy storage systems, designed
to store electricity in batteries for subsequent use; solar energy farms, designed to create
renewable energy from sunlight; and data centers, designed to house computer systems and
associated components such as telecommunications and storage systems. After discussion, the

following Resolution was offered by ( -levenges and supported by Ridley :

CASCO TOWNSHIP BOARD RESOLUTION TO ESTABLISH A
MORATORIUM ON THE ISSUANCE OF ZONING PERMITS
FOR BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS, SOLAR ENERGY
FARMS, AND DATA CENTERS

WHEREAS, the Township previously adopted the Casco Township Zoning Ordinance; and

WHEREAS, the Zoning Ordinance does not specifically address the regulation of battery energy
storage systems, solar energy farms, or data centers; and

WHEREAS, before a large amount of developable property in the Township is used for these
purposes, and before these uses are initiated in the Township without proper regulation, the
Township wants to carefully study these land uses and decide how best to regulate them; and

WHEREAS, the State has adopted Public Act 233 of 2023, shifting siting authority over large-scale
renewable energy facilities (including battery energy storage systems and solar energy farms) to
the State; and

WHEREAS, the Michigan Public Service Commission has not yet fully processed any siting request
for either a battery energy storage system or a solar energy farm; and

WHEREAS, the Township may wish to exercise its right to develop an allowable zoning ordinance
to regulate battery energy storage systems or solar energy farms or both; and


WHEREAS, the significant increase in the demand for telecommunications and for electronic
storage has created a demand for more and larger data centers;

THEREFORE, THE TOWNSHIP BOARD RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS.

1. For the reasons stated above, the Township Board establishes a moratorium on the
issuance of any zoning, building, or other permits or other approvals to any person, entity, or
premises, for establishment of any battery energy storage system, solar energy farm, or data
center.

2. The extended moratorium shall last through ( et (0) AadAG. The purpose of the
extended moratorium is to allow the Township to consider whether to adopt a local ordinance
to regulate battery energy storage systems and solar energy farms, despite the existence of Act
233; consider how to allow and fairly regulate data centers; carefully consider additional
regulations to preserve and protect the public health, safety, and welfare, while preserving
agricultural land and land uses in the Township; and promote the purposes of the Zoning
Ordinance and the goals of the Township’s master plan, specifically by determining how best to
regulate battery energy storage systems, solar energy farms, and data centers, as allowed in the
Township.

3. All resolutions and parts of resolutions are, to the extent of any conflict with this
Resolution, rescinded.

YES: 5
NO: O

RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.

Dated: Avril 20 _, 2026

Rachel Ridley
Casco Township Clerk

| hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of a resolution ado, ted by the Casco Township
Board of Trustees ata meeting held on thee20™ day of i dnl , 2026.

Pips ted bg Aoi! AO, 2020
Rach¢l Ridley Date

Casco Township Clerk

