                          CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF COMSTOCK
                   COUNTY OF KALAMAZOO, STATE OF MICHIGAN
                                     ORDINANCE NO. 565
                                  ADOPTED: March 16, 2026
                        EFFECTIVE: Upon publication after adoption
           AN ORDINANCE TO ENACT A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON
                             DATA CENTERS
      An Ordinance to protect the public health, safety, and welfare by establishing regulations
relating to a limited moratorium on considering applications for data centers, while the Township
completes a study of ordinances and regulations pertaining thereto; to provide for severability; to
repeal all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict therewith; and to provide an effective date.


                          CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF COMSTOCK

                            KALAMAZOO COUNTY, MICHIGAN
                                            ORDAINS:

                                           SECTION I
                                           FINDINGS

       In accordance with Public Act 359 of 1947, MCL 42.1 et seq., as amended, the Board of
Trustees for the Charter Township of Comstock has determined the following:

       1. That the approval of data centers may result in or produce negative impacts on
          permitted land uses and development and may harm the public health, safety and
          general welfare of property owners and residents of the Charter Township of Comstock.

       2. The Township Board is aware of significant public health, safety, and welfare concerns
           being raised by the public about the impacts of data centers.
       3. The Township has a legitimate public purpose in assessing the regulation of the
          establishment and use of data centers within the Township to ensure that data centers
          do not interfere with other land uses, or have substantial negative impacts on the
          environment, public health and safety.
       4. The Township Board finds that adopting a temporary moratorium is reasonable and
          necessary for, among other reasons, the following reasons:

           A. Michigan courts have recognized that a moratorium is a common and
              legitimate tool to preserve the status quo while formulating a development
              strategy.

           B. The Township Board desires to review and study the public health, safety,
               and welfare concerns regarding data centers and any Township regulations
               that may impact and/or regulate such projects.

           C. The adoption of a temporary moratorium will allow the Township Board
              adequate time to study and possibly implement revisions to the Township’s
              Ordinances and regulations, including attention to and consideration of
              citizen input and involvement, public debate, and full consideration of all
              issues and points of view.

       5. The Township Board accordingly determines that it is desirable and in the public
          interest for the reasons set forth above that the Township Board adopt a temporary
          moratorium on the acceptance and/or processing of any applications for data centers.

                                 SECTION II
                       MORATORIUM/TERM OF MORATORIUM

       The Township Board adopts a temporary moratorium on the acceptance and/or processing
of any applications for a data center. The temporary moratorium is in effect for one (1) year
following the adoption of this ordinance by the Township Board, or until the effective date of any
amended or new Township Ordinances or regulations addressing data centers are effective,
whichever date occurs first.

                                    SECTION III
                             EXTENSION OF MORATORIUM

       Before this moratorium expires, the Township Board may extend the temporary
moratorium by resolution as appropriate to allow sufficient time to complete amendments or
additions to its Ordinances and regulations.

                                        SECTION IV
                                       SEVERABILITY

        The provisions of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be severable. If any clause,
sentence, word, section or provision is hereafter declared void or unenforceable for any reason by
a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not affect the remainder of such Ordinance which shall
continue in full force and effect.

                                          SECTION V
                                           REPEAL

       All Ordinance or parts of Ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.




                                                2
                                SECTION VI
                              EFFECTIVE DATE

This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication after adoption.


                   CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF COMSTOCK
                        Nicole Beauchamp, Clerk
                          5858 King Highway
                         Kalamazoo, MI 49048
                            (269) 381-2360




                                        3
