                                                 TYRONE TOWNSHIP
                                              BOARD MEETING AGENDA
                                              DECEMBER 2, 2025 - 7:00 P.M.
                                                    (810) 629-8631

         CALL TO ORDER – PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE – 7:00 P.M.

         ROLL CALL

         APPROVAL OF AGENDA – OR CHANGES

         APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA
             Township Board Meeting Minutes – November 18, 2025
             Clerk’s Warrants and Bills – November 25, 2025

         COMMUNICATIONS (to receive and place on file)
             1. Hartland Senior Activity Center 2025 Annual Report
             2. Livingston County Draft Master Plan Distribution- November 25, 2025

         PUBLIC REMARKS (agenda items only)

         UNFINISHED BUSINESS
              1. Best forum for determining board goals and the direction of the township.
              2. Code of conduct policy revisions.
              3. Open burning ordinance amendments.
              4. Weed treatment around the fire well.
              5. Policy to add opinions and judgments of lawsuits as communications.

         NEW BUSINESS
              1. Resignation of Trustee Sara Dollman-Jersey.
              2. Medical marijuana moratorium extension.
              3. AI Data Center moratorium.
              4. Sewer rates for 2026.
              5. Closed session to consult with the attorney regarding the pending litigation of Milarch v.
                 Tyrone Township because an open meeting would have a detrimental financial effect on the
                 litigating or settlement position of the township.

         PUBLIC REMARKS

         MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS

         ADJOURNMENT
                                              * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

                                       Supervisor Greg Carnes           Clerk Pam Moughler

Please note: Anyone wishing to address the Township Board may do so during Public Remarks. The Tyrone Township Board of
Trustees has established a policy limiting the time a person may address the Township Board at a regular or at a special meeting
during the Public Remarks section of the agenda to three minutes. The Board reserves the right to place an issue under the New
Business section of the agenda if additional discussion is warranted or to respond later either verbally or in writing through an
appropriately appointed Township Official. Individuals with disabilities requiring auxiliary aids or services should contact the Tyrone
Township Clerk at (810) 629-8631 at least seven days prior to the meeting.


CONSENT AGENDA

Township Board Meeting Minutes - November 18, 2025
Clerk’s Warrants and Bills - November 25, 2025



                            TYRONE TOWNSHIP
                         REGULAR BOARD MEETING
                APPROVED MINUTES – NOVEMBER 18, 2025 – PAGE 1

CALL TO ORDER
Supervisor Carnes called the meeting of the Tyrone Township Board to order with the Pledge of
Allegiance on November 18, 2025, at 7:00 p.m. at the Tyrone Township Hall. The Supervisor
reminded everyone of the Code of Conduct policy.

ROLL CALL
Present: Supervisor Greg Carnes, Clerk Pam Moughler, Treasurer Jennifer Eden, Trustees Sara
Dollman-Jersey, Herman Ferguson, Dean Haase, and Chris Ropeta.

APPROVAL OF AGENDA – OR CHANGES
Clerk Moughler changed New Business #6 to read as “Pam Heavener’s request to use historic
town hall for two events.” It was not the Historical Society’s request as incorrectly stated on the
agenda.

Trustee Dollman-Jersey moved to add the following items to the agenda:
       • Discussion to determine the best practice to create the board agenda.
       • Discussion to determine the board’s goals.
(Trustee Haase seconded.) The motion carried; all ayes.

Trustee Ropeta moved to add the following item to the agenda:
       • Discussion of Code of Conduct violations.
(Trustee Haase seconded.) The motion carried; 4 ayes, 3 nays (Carnes, Eden, Moughler).

Trustee Ropeta moved to approve the agenda as amended. (Trustee Ferguson seconded.) The
motion carried; all ayes.

APPROVAL OF CONSENT AGENDA
    Township Board Meeting Minutes – October 21, 2025
    Treasurer’s Report – October 31, 2025
    Clerk’s Warrants and Bills – November 12, 2025

Trustee Ferguson moved to approve the consent agenda as presented. (Treasurer Eden seconded.)
The motion carried; all ayes.

COMMUNICATIONS
    1. Livingston County Sheriff’s Report- October 31, 2025
    2. Monthly Budget Report – October 31, 2025
    3. Chris Ropeta v. Tyrone Township - Opinion and Order on Complaint for
       Superintending Control – September 26, 2025
    4. Incident/Investigation Report re. the September 16, 2025 threat of violence –
       October 23, 2025
    5. Historical Town Hall Designation Marker announcement from Margaret
       Melville - November 11, 2025
    6. Approved Planning Commission Meeting Minutes – October 14, 2025
    7. Planning Commission Meeting & Public Hearing Synopsis – November 11, 2025


                           TYRONE TOWNSHIP
                        REGULAR BOARD MEETING
               APPROVED MINUTES – NOVEMBER 18, 2025 – PAGE 2

Trustee Ropeta said the addition of Communication #3: Chris Ropeta v. Tyrone Township-
Opinion and Order on Complaint for Superintending Control, September 26, 2025, sets a
precedent to put all opinions and judgments of lawsuits as a communication.

Trustee Haase moved to create a policy regarding lawsuits. (Trustee Ropeta seconded.) The
motion carried; all ayes. Clerk Moughler agreed to draft the policy to review at the next
meeting.

Trustee Ferguson moved to receive and place on file Communications #1-7 as presented.
(Treasurer Eden seconded.) The motion carried; all ayes.

PUBLIC REMARKS for agenda items only.
Several public comments were heard.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
None.

NEW BUSINESS
     1. Fund Balance Policy discussion.

The board discussed updating the Fund Balance Policy, specifically what percentage of the
operating revenues and expenditures the township should maintain as the fund balance. The
township accountant said he could get comparables of what other municipalities use, but said
there is no fast rule; it depends on what the board is comfortable with. No motion was made.

       2. Budget amendments.

Clerk Moughler moved to adopt the budget amendments as presented. (Trustee Dollman-Jersey
seconded.) The motion carried; all ayes. The amendments are as follows:




       3. Open burning ordinance amendments.

The board discussed the Supervisor’s proposed amendments to the Open Burning Ordinance.
Supervisor Carnes said the amendments were the result of meetings with the three fire chiefs
(City of Fenton, Fenton Township, and Hartland-Deerfield) and the township’s professional
planner. Board members were asked to mark up the draft they received with comments or ideas
to discuss at the December 2 board meeting.


                            TYRONE TOWNSHIP
                         REGULAR BOARD MEETING
                APPROVED MINUTES – NOVEMBER 18, 2025 – PAGE 3

       4. Fire dry well contract selection.

Clerk Moughler moved to retain Ed Birkmeier Will Drilling, Ltd. to install the fire well at Alcoy
Drive for the cost of $97,866.00. (Trustee Ferguson seconded.) The motion carried; all ayes.

       5. Appointments to the Board of Review.

Trustee Ferguson moved to appoint Perry Green to fill the vacancy resulting from the resignation
of Kim Veenstra. (Clerk Moughler seconded.) The motion carried; 6 ayes, 1 nay (Ropeta). Mr.
Green’s term expires December 31, 2026.

Treasurer Eden moved to appoint John Orlando as an alternate on the Board of Review. (Trustee
Ferguson seconded.) The motion carried; 5 ayes, 2 nays (Ropeta, Haase). Mr. Orlando’s term
expires December 31, 2026.

       6. Pam Heavener’s request to use historic town hall for two events.

Supervisor Carnes said the board still needs to discuss with the Historical Society what the uses
of the historic town hall will be and to determine a rental policy. No motion was made.

       7. Resolution to revoke the charges of non-feasance of Planning Commissioners.

                               RESOLUTION #251101
                       TYRONE TOWNSHIP, LIVINGSTON COUNTY

      RESOLUTION REVOKING CHARGES OF NON-FEASANCE BY PLANNING
    COMMISSION MEMBERS JON WARD, RICHARD ERICKSON, GARRETT LADD,
                     KEVIN ROSS AND BILL WOOD

WHEREAS, it has come to the attention of the Board of Trustees of Tyrone Township ("Board")
that Tyrone Township Supervisor, Greg Carnes generated, either alone or with help of other
trustees, a document bearing text that directly suggests that it was an official Tyrone Township
document approved by the Tyrone Township Board of Trustees charging certain Tyrone
Township Planning Commission Members, including Jon Ward, Richard Erickson, Garrett Ladd,
Kevin Ross and Bill Wood, with non-feasance and scheduling a date for a hearing before the
Tyrone Township Board to answer the charge of non-feasance;

WHEREAS, that charging document was delivered by the Tyrone Township Supervisor to
Tyrone Township Planning Commission members, including Jon Ward, Richard Erickson,
Garrett Ladd, Kevin Ross and Bill Wood either during or at the conclusion of the Planning
Commission meeting held December 10, 2024;

WHEREAS, the charge of non-feasance against Planning Commission members Jon Ward,
Richard Erickson, Garrett Ladd, Kevin Ross and Bill Wood was not authorized by the Tyrone
Township Board, is meritless and should be rescinded and nullified;


                            TYRONE TOWNSHIP
                         REGULAR BOARD MEETING
                APPROVED MINUTES – NOVEMBER 18, 2025 – PAGE 4



WHEREAS, Planning Commission members Jon Ward, Richard Erickson, Garrett Ladd, Kevin
Ross and Bill Wood deserve an apology for the wrongful and illegitimate charges of non-
feasance issued against them;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of Tyrone Township
formally rescinds and nullifies any and all charges of non-feasance made against Planning
Commission members Jon Ward, Richard Erickson, Garrett Ladd, Kevin Ross and Bill Wood in
December 2024;

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of Tyrone Township apologizes to
Planning Commission members Jon Ward, Richard Erickson, Garrett Ladd, Kevin Ross and Bill
Wood for any embarrassment, humiliation, stress or other burden placed upon them as a result of
the wrongful and illegitimate charges of non-feasance issued against them.

RESOLVED BY: Trustee Ferguson
SUPPORTED BY: Treasurer Eden

VOTE: Dollman-Jersey, yes; Eden, yes; Ferguson, yes; Moughler, yes; Carnes, recused; Haase,
recused; Ropeta, recused.

ADOPTION DATE: November 18, 2025

                              CERTIFICATION OF THE CLERK

The undersigned, being the duly qualified and acting Clerk of Tyrone Township, Livingston
County, Michigan, hereby certifies that (1) the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a
resolution adopted by the Township Board at a regular meeting, held on November 18, 2025, at
which meeting a quorum was present and remained throughout, (2) the original thereof is on file
in the records in my office, (3) the meeting was conducted, and public notice thereof was given,
pursuant to and in full compliance with the Open Meetings Act (Act No. 267, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1976, as amended) and (4) minutes of such meeting were kept and will be or have
been made available as required thereby.




                                       Pamela Moughler
                                        Township Clerk


                            TYRONE TOWNSHIP
                         REGULAR BOARD MEETING
                APPROVED MINUTES – NOVEMBER 18, 2025 – PAGE 5


       8. Resolution to negotiate summer tax collection with schools.

                              RESOLUTION #251102
                      TYRONE TOWNSHIP, LIVINGSTON COUNTY

                        TO AUTHORIZE NEGOTIATING FOR
                     SUMMER TAX COLLECTION WITH SCHOOLS

 WHEREAS, Act 333, Public Acts of Michigan, 1982, provides that townships may negotiate the
collection of summer property taxes upon request of the local school districts; and

WHEREAS, in previous years school districts within the boundaries of Tyrone Township have
requested one-half or all of the tax levy;

WHEREAS, school districts within the boundaries of Tyrone Township have indicated they will
request one-half or all of the 2026 tax levy, including debt services; and

WHEREAS, the 2026 summer property tax collection shall not be an additional expense to
Tyrone Township;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT:

1. The negotiations for the collection of the 2026 summer school tax, as certified by school
districts within Tyrone Township, are authorized.

2. The Supervisor and Treasurer are authorized and directed to negotiate on behalf of Tyrone
Township.

3. These taxes will be levied commencing July 1, 2026.

4. Should an agreement not be determined to cover reasonable expenses, Tyrone Township will
not be responsible for the collection of the above tax.

RESOLVED BY: Treasurer Eden
SUPPORTED BY: Clerk Moughler

VOTE: Carnes, yes; Dollman-Jersey, yes; Eden, yes; Ferguson, yes; Haase, yes; Moughler, yes;
Ropeta, yes.

ADOPTION DATE: November 18, 2025


                            TYRONE TOWNSHIP
                         REGULAR BOARD MEETING
                APPROVED MINUTES – NOVEMBER 18, 2025 – PAGE 6

                             CERTIFICATION OF THE CLERK

The undersigned, being the duly qualified and acting Clerk of Tyrone Township, Livingston
County, Michigan, hereby certifies that (1) the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a
resolution adopted by the Township Board at a regular meeting, held on November 18, 2025, at
which meeting a quorum was present and remained throughout, (2) the original thereof is on file
in the records in my office, (3) the meeting was conducted, and public notice thereof was given,
pursuant to and in full compliance with the Open Meetings Act (Act No. 267, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1976, as amended) and (4) minutes of such meeting were kept and will be or have
been made available as required thereby.



                                      Pamela Moughler
                                    Tyrone Township Clerk

       9. Pitney Bowes postage meter contract.

Treasurer Eden moved to accept the five-year contract for the Pitney Bowes postage meter for
the township office. (Trustee Dollman-Jersey seconded.) The motion carried; all ayes. The
rental

       10. Closed session to consult with the attorney regarding the pending litigation of
           Anderson v. Tyrone Township and Milarch v. Tyrone Township because an
           open meeting would have a detrimental financial effect on the litigating or
           settlement position of the township.

                              RESOLUTION #251103
                      TYRONE TOWNSHIP, LIVINGSTON COUNTY

                                     CLOSED SESSION

Clerk Moughler resolved to go into closed session to discuss the pending litigation of Anderson
v. Tyrone and Milarch v. Tyrone Township because an open meeting would have a detrimental
financial effect on the litigating or settlement position of the township. (Trustee Ferguson
seconded.)

Roll call: Carnes, yes; Dollman-Jersey, yes; Eden, yes; Ferguson, yes; Haase, yes; Moughler,
yes; Ropeta, yes.

The board convened in closed session at 9:21 p.m.

                           * * * * *Closed Session Minutes* * * * *

The board reconvened in open session at 9:57 p.m.


                            TYRONE TOWNSHIP
                         REGULAR BOARD MEETING
                APPROVED MINUTES – NOVEMBER 18, 2025 – PAGE 7

The board discussed the Anderson v. Tyrone Township case. Treasurer Eden moved to not
accept the settlement offer, to send the Andersons’ zoning variance request back to the Zoning
Board of Appeals, and to waive any Zoning Board of Appeals fees. (Supervisor Carnes
seconded.) The motion carried; all ayes.

The township attorney said in the case of the Milarch lawsuit, the township’s insurance company
has their own attorney to represent the township. A closed session will need to be held with the
insurance attorney and the board.

       11. Discussion on best practices to determine the agenda.

The board discussed the best practices to determine the agenda. No motion was made.

       12. Best forum to identify board goals.

The board discussed forum ideas to identify board goals. No motion was made.

       13. Discussion about code of conduct policy violations.

The board discussed the code of conduct policy. No motion was made.

PUBLIC REMARKS
Several public comments were heard.

MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS
Supervisor Carnes told the board the joint meeting with the Planning Commission is scheduled
for January 20, 2026.

ADJOURNMENT
Clerk Moughler moved to adjourn. (Trustee Ferguson seconded.) The motion carried; all ayes.
The meeting adjourned at 11:02 p.m.


11/25/2025 12:02 PM                 CHECK REGISTER FOR TYRONE TOWNSHIP                  Page:   1/1
User: PMOUGHLER                  CHECK DATE FROM 11/13/2025 - 11/24/2025
DB: Tyrone
Check Date Bank       Check       App    Vendor        Vendor Name                              Amount
Bank 001 CHOICE ONE COMMON ACCOUNT

11/19/2025    001        24794      AP        297         BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD OF        15,190.71
11/19/2025    001        24795      AP        108           CHARTERMICHIGAN
                                                                     COMMUNICATIONS           135.00
11/19/2025    001        24796      AP         41               CONSUMERS ENERGY              139.19
11/19/2025    001        24797      AP       GARAN         GARAN LUCOW MILLER P.C.            665.00
11/19/2025    001        24798      AP        149             PITNEY BOWES GLOBAL             190.23
11/19/2025    001        24799      AP    RICOH LEAS              RICOH USA INC               196.28

        Total of 6 Checks:                                                                  16,516.41
       Less 0 Void Checks:                                                                       0.00
    Total of 6 Disbursements:                                                               16,516.41
Bank 022 CHOICE ONE - PUBLIC SAFETY checking

11/19/2025    022        1502       AP       176        HARTLAND AREA FIRE DEPARTMENT      22,218.00

        Total of 1 Checks:                                                                  22,218.00
       Less 0 Void Checks:                                                                       0.00
    Total of 1 Disbursements:                                                               22,218.00
Bank 108 TAX FUND FLAGSTAR

11/19/2025    108        3663       AP        806               FENTON SCHOOLS              9,287.99
11/19/2025    108        3664       AP       GISD                    GISD                   2,472.69
11/19/2025    108        3665       AP       LESA                    LESA                   1,410.54
11/19/2025    108        3666       AP        945          LINDEN COMMUNITY SCHOOLS           777.11
11/19/2025    108        3667       AP        871        LIVINGSTON COUNTY TREASURER       15,359.10

        Total of 5 Checks:                                                                  29,307.43
       Less 0 Void Checks:                                                                       0.00
    Total of 5 Disbursements:                                                               29,307.43


    Report Total of 12 Checks:                                                              68,041.84
        Less 0 Void Checks:                                                                      0.00
Report Total of 12 Disbursements:                                                           68,041.84


COMMUNICATION #1

Hartland Senior Activity Center 2025 Annual Report



Aaland Hartland Senior Activity Center

9525 E. Highland Rd.

x Howell, Michigan 48843
Senion Activity, Center (810) 626-2137
PROMOTING QUALITY LIFE RECEIVED www.hartlandseniorcenter.org

kimkonarski@hartlandschools.us

W NSHIP CLERK

November 11, 2025 yRONE +0

Greg Carnes, Supervisor
Tyrone Township

8420 Runyan Lake Rd.
Fenton, MI 48430

Enclosed you will find our 2025 Annual Report, as well as our most recent newsletter. As you review our
report, you will see we have been very busy this year with over 1,300 paid members and many others
participating as non-members.

Please thank the members of the Tyrone Township board for their continued support of the Hartland Senior
Activity Center. Financial assistance from the Township allows us to continue offering affordable services and

activities to our local senior residents.

We would appreciate your continued partnership and support of the HSAC for the next Fiscal Year
(2026-2027). Please let me know if you would like me to present to the Township Board.

Thank you for your past, current and future support.
Sincerely,

Kim Konarski, HSAC Director

~Promoting Vitality Among Seniors~


Annual Report Hartland Senior Activity Center 2025

2025 Annual Report accounts for programs and activities that occurred January 1— October 31, 2025.
Currently we have 1,356 paid members of the HSAC. Membership is not required to benefit from our
programs and services; we have many free activities open to those age 50 and older. Membership
benefits include discounts on classes and travel plus the monthly newsletter, weekly email reminders,
and occasional robo calls. Annual dues for 2025 remained $25 for a single member ($40 for a couple in
the same household) and run the calendar year.

Overview

The HSAC is open Monday — Thursday, 8am-4pm and Fridays from 8am-3pm. We are closed holidays
and weekends. Programs are available to anyone age 50 years and above, but our average member is
70-74 years old. In 2025, we had 45,668 check-ins with an average daily attendance of 205. Wednesday
is our busiest day at an average of 263 per day and September is our busiest month with a daily average
of 236 for the month. Our mission is to cultivate happy, healthy, and independent lifestyles for everyone
50 and over. We promote vitality among seniors through a variety of programs designed to meet the
needs of many.

Senior Outreach Program

Livingston County Catholic Charities has been our primary resource for Medicare counseling for the past
few years. They are here several times a month during Open Enrollment to meet with members and
answer questions regarding Medicare insurance plans. Our Trips / Travel program continues to be
popular thanks to the help of our volunteer Travel Committee who help decide on destinations. Our
partnership with AARP to provide tax prep services at no charge was very successful in 2025 - serving
418 people from mid-February to late March. The tax program is a great way to reach potential new
members.

Senior Transportation

The center’s bus service continues to provide affordable transportation to area residents. We have one
full time driver, and one substitute driver who totaled 17,543 miles on our vehicles and provided 1,700
rides so far in 2025. Most of our transportation requests are for medical services to doctors, physical
therapy or Be Our Guest Adult Day Services but we also provide rides to grocery stores and area
businesses like the post office, library, and senior center.

Wellness Programs

The center offers 17 in person fitness classes weekly with Yoga and Tai Chi also offered via Google Meet.
Our weight room and hall walking options are also popular. We started a weekly walking club at
Settler’s Park in Hartland this year but as the weather turns colder, we always see an uptick in walking
inside our building. We are working with Silver Sneakers and members can use their benefit for free
weight room use as well as a Silver Sneakers Strength and Balance class held on Fridays. The Taking Off
Pounds Sensibly program is still going strong with 14 regular participants who meet weekly throughout
the year.


Collaboration

As stated above we partner with many local businesses and other non-profits to provide programs.
Some examples are our Ask a Physical Therapist Program with Advanced Physical Therapy, the annual
Senior Spelling Bee with other senior communities and centers, and more. Once again, we were able to
partner with University of Michigan to offer our annual Flu Shot clinic to 37 seniors. Our monthly Food
Mobiles w/ Gleaners have become even more needed seeing a monthly attendance of about 119 - 127
households. We are part of the Livingston Leadership Council on Aging, the Livingston County
Consortium on Aging, the Livingston Activity Directors Group, Hartland Area Community Council and
Hartland Chamber of Commerce.

Social and Recreation

The Hartland Senior Activity Center provides opportunities for fun through many social activities with
our goal of “Promoting Vitality Among Seniors”. With 27 regularly scheduled activities each week (not
counting our fitness programs) plus special add-ons each month like birthday parties, trivia, bingo,
dinners, open mic nite, cooking classes; we truly have something for everyone.

From January — October 2025, our members and guests participated at the Center in the following ways:

Fitness Participants checked in 21,520 times
Social and Recreation Participants check in 18,019 times
Lunch Participants checked in 2,447 times
Arts & Education Participants check in 1,330 times

Membership and Fundraising Events

Our efforts to create awareness for the senior center, include our booth at the Livingston County
Consortium on Aging “Resource Fair for Aging Parents” and our Spring and Fall Open Houses. This year’s
Fall Open House in September had an exceptional turnout thanks to the support of WHMI.

As with most senior centers, we offer holiday dinners (Mardi Gras Party, Irish Dinner, Holiday Feast,
Thanksgiving Dinner), themed special events (Opening Day Tigers Party, Mother’s Day Brunch, Monthly
birthday parties, Veterans Breakfast), fun events (Chili Cookoff, Battle of the Sexes Trivia Contest). We
rely heavily on our Events Committee and Fundraisers to help offset operating expenses. Below are a
few examples of our fundraisers this year.

April — Mystery Dinner Theater ($2,000)

May — Spring Music Concert ($1,500)

June — Recycled Rockettes Show ($5,000)

October — Fall Variety Show ($6,000)

*Surprisingly, our bi-annual Trash to Treasure Sales have been popular, raising over $3,500 each.

Moving Forward

Our annual budget of $280,000 is primarily covered with program fees, donations, and fundraisers. Only
about 30% of our budget is covered by local support and grants. Our fitness classes cost $4 per class for
members and $6 for non-members.

We know that it’s partnerships, like ours, that foster the biggest accomplishments. We once again thank
you for your support as we strive to meet the needs of the senior citizens in our community.


COMMUNICATION #2

Livingston County Draft Master Plan Distribution-
November 25, 2025



fo Outlook

Distribution of DRAFT 2026 Livingston County, Michigan Master Plan

From Rob Stanford <RStanford@livgov.com>
Date Tue 11/25/2025 11:24 AM

Livingston County Department of Planning

Department Address:

Adnunictration Building Seott Barb Robert Stanford Martha Haghind Abby Carrigan
304E. Grand River Aveme @ AIcP,PEM @ ace @ alc @ Planning Intern
Howl, Mi 4884. 3 Director Principal Planner Principal Planner
‘Ws milly county.gor/planning

TO: Livingston County Board of Commissioners

Livingston County Municipal Legislative Bodies
Contiguous Municipal Legislative Bodies,
Southeast Michigan Council of Governments
Public Utility Companies and Railroad Companies

FROM: Livingston County Planning Department
Scott Barb, Director
DATE: November 25, 2025
RE: Distribution of DRAFT 2026 Livingston County Master Plan for public review and comment

On October 15, 2025, the Livingston County Planning Commission recommended to the Livingston County Board of
Commissioners to approve the release of the Draft 2026 Livingston County Master Plan to all the neighboring
communities and interested parties for a 63-day review period as required by the Michigan Planning Enabling Act (PA
33 of 2008 as amended). On November 24, 2025, the Livingston County Board of Commissioners approved the
distribution of the Draft 2018 Livingston County Master Plan for public review and comment.

During the 63-day review period, public comments will be collected by County Planning Department staff. After the
review period (which ends on January 26, 2026), a public hearing will be scheduled by the Livingston County Planning
Commission (date to be determined) to hear verbal comments, and to review the comments collected by staff.
Adoption of the plan will not take place until after this review period and public hearing.

Please see the Livingston County Planning Department website at: https://milivcounty, gov/planning/2026-master-plan/
for a link to the complete draft of the plan. The Draft 2026 Livingston County Master Plan is a web-based plan that is
intended to be viewed and utilized digitally, although the plan can be downloaded and printed by the user. A copy of
the draft plan is also available at the front counter of the Livingston County Planning Department.

Comments on the draft plan may be made directly from the 2026 Draft Master Plan website utilizing the public
comment link found there, or by e-mail to the Livingston County Planning Department at planning@livgov.com, by
letter, fax, or telephone contact as indicated on this letterhead.

Thank you for your consideration of this matter. If you have any questions regarding this correspondence, please
contact Livingston County Planning Department. We look forward to your comments regarding this draft document.


UNFINISHED BUSINESS #1

Best forum for determining board goals and the
direction of the township.

(No documents attached.)



UNFINISHED BUSINESS #2

Code of conduct policy revisions.



                              RESOLUTION #2512xx
                      TYRONE TOWNSHIP, LIVINGSTON COUNTY

               CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PUBLIC TOWNSHIP MEETINGS

This Code of Conduct applies to all persons attending public meetings of any Tyrone Township
board or commission. This policy is intended to promote open meetings without disruptions and the
performance of any board or commission’s functions without obstruction, impairment, or hindrance,
providing a welcoming debate of issues considered in an atmosphere of fairness, courtesy and
respect for differing points of view.

1.     Public Meeting Decorum

       a.     All persons attending will refrain from behavior which disrupts a public meeting. This
              will include making loud noises, clapping, shouting, booing, hissing, interrupting
              board or commission members or other members of the public, or engaging in any
              other activity that disturbs, disrupts or impedes the orderly conduct of the meeting.

       b.     All persons attending will refrain from creating, provoking or participating in any
              type of disturbance involving unwelcome physical contact or verbal abuse.

       c.     All persons attending will be respectful to all in attendance, before, during and after
              all meetings.

       d.     All persons attending will silence mobile phones and/or pagers while the meeting is
              in session.

       e.     All persons attending shall not use threatening, inappropriate, or abusive language
              toward members of any board or commission or other persons in attendance, or
              engage in any other conduct that disturbs, disrupts, or impedes the orderly conduct
              of the meeting.


2.     Addressing the Board or Commission

       a.     Persons wishing to address a board or commission on any item may do so by raising
              their hand when the Supervisor or Chairperson asks for public comments and waiting
              to be recognized.

       b.     Each speaker should provide his or her name and address at the beginning of his or
              her remarks for the formal record. If a speaker represents an association or group, he
              or she should identify the entity he or she represents.

      a.      Persons who wish to address the Board during public comment must complete a
              card, including name, address and topic they intend to discuss, and submit it to
              the chairman before the meeting begins. Comments cards will not be accepted after
               the meeting has started.


       b.         During the public comment time, the chairperson will call residents up by their name
                  only. Public comment time is limited to three minutes. A comment card must be filled
                  out in order to address the board.

       c.         Groups of attendees are encouraged to designate a single member to speak on behalf
                  of the group.

       d.         Each speaker will be given three (3) minutes to speak, subject to extension at the
                  discretion of the Supervisor or Chairperson.

       e.          All persons attending will address the board, not fellow residents. Speakers’
                   comments shall be directed to the board or commission. Not the audience.

       f.          Be respectful when addressing the Board / PC / ZBA during meetings and public comment.

       g.          If an individual wishes to submit written comments or handouts, he or she may
                   submit it to the Supervisor or Chairperson, and the comments will be distributed
                   to the board or commission members.


 3.         Recording and Telecasting of Meetings


           a.     Attendees who desire to record or telecast any public township meeting are permitted
                  to do so as long as the attendee remains seated.

           b.     Any person wishing to stand and record may do so at the back wall, so as not to impede
                  the flow of traffic, block exits or the view of attendees.

           c.     All recording and telecasting devices in the meeting room shall be under the control
                  of a person who is physically present by the device at all time.

       d.        There shall be no recording or telecasting at meeting locations before the meeting is
                 called to order, during meeting recesses, or after the meeting is adjourned.


4.         Post Meeting Conduct

      a.          All persons are to vacate the building after the meeting adjourns.

      b.          Use normal business hours to address township business. Office doors are locked
                  after 5 pm.

5.         Any person not adhering to this Code of Conduct Policy will be asked to leave.


RESOLVED BY:
SUPPORTED BY:
VOTE:
                              CERTIFICATION OF THE CLERK

The undersigned, being the duly qualified and acting Clerk of Tyrone Township, Livingston County,
Michigan, hereby certifies that (1) the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a resolution adopted
by the Township Board at a regular meeting, held on __________________, at which meeting a
quorum was present and remained throughout, (2) the original thereof is on file in the records in my
office, (3) the meeting was conducted, and public notice thereof was given, pursuant to and in full
compliance with the Open Meetings Act (Act No. 267, Public Acts of Michigan, 1976, as amended)
and (4) minutes of such meeting were kept and will be or have been made available as required
thereby.

                           ____________________________________
                                       Pam Moughler
                                       Township Clerk


UNFINISHED BUSINESS #3

Open burning ordinance amendments.



                            DRAFT BURN ORDINANCE AMENDMENT LANGUAGE

                                   Existing text to remain in black standard font.
                                Existing text to be deleted in red strikethrough font.
                                          Proposed text in blue italics font.


SECTION 1: PURPOSE                                                                                                    Formatted: Justified

1.0     Purpose. This ordinance is intended to promote the public health, safety, and welfare and to safeguard
        the health, comfort, living conditions, safety and welfare of the citizens of Tyrone Township by
        regulating the air pollution and fire hazards of open burning and outdoor burning.


SECTION 2: APPLICABILITY

2.00    Applicability. This ordinance applies to all outdoor burning and open burning within Tyrone Township.

        2.1.     This ordinance does not apply to grilling or cooking food using charcoal, wood, propane or
                 natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
        2.2.     This ordinance does not apply to burning for the purpose of generating heat in a stove, furnace,
                 fireplace or other heating device within a building used for human or animal habitation.
        2.3.     This ordinance does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene, natural gas, gasoline or
                 kerosene in a device intended for heating, construction or maintenance activities.


SECTION 3: SEVERABILITY

3.00    Severability. Should any portion of this ordinance be declared unconstitutional or invalid by a court of
        competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this ordinance shall not be affected.


SECTION 4: DEFINITIONS

4.004.00         Definitions.                                                                                         Formatted: Font: (Default) Arial, 10 pt, Bold
        4.1.     "Recreational fire" means a small outdoor fire (see 7.1.1) such as a campfire or bonfire             Formatted: Justified
                 intended for pleasure, religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth or similar purposes. This
                 definition of a “recreational fire” shall not include , or, but not, including a fire intended for
                 disposal of waste wood or refuse.
        4.2.     "Clean wood" means natural wood which has not been painted, varnished or coated with a
                 similar material; has not been pressure treated with preservatives; and does not contain resins
                 or glues as in plywood or other composite wood products.
        4.3.     "Construction and demolition waste" means building waste materials, including but not limited
                 to waste shingles, insulation, lumber, treated wood, painted wood, wiring, plastics, packaging,
                 and rubble that results from construction, remodeling, repair, and demolition operations on a
                 house, commercial or industrial building, or other structure.
        4.4.     "Fire Chief" means the Chief of the City of Fenton Fire Department, Fenton Township
                 Department, Hartland / Deerfield Fire Authority, or the Chief of any other fire department that


Burn Ordinance Amendment                                                                                  Page 1
Township Board Discussion                                                                  DRAFT November 3, 2025


                 Tyrone Township may contract with in the future or other person designated by a Fire Chief.
        4.5.     "Municipality" means a county, township, city, or village.
        4.6.     "Outdoor burning" means open burning, recreational fires, or patio wood burning unit.
        4.7.     "Open burning" means kindling or maintaining a fire where the products of combustion are
                 emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a stack or a chimney. This includes
                 burning in a burn barrel.
        4.8.     "Patio wood-burning unit" means a chimnea, patio warmer, or other portable wood- burning
                 device used for outdoor recreation and/or heating.
        4.9.     "Refuse" means any waste material except trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves,or grass
                 clippings., and other vegetative matter.
        4.10.    “Nuisance” means that NO materials shall be burned that create a foul, offensive odor, or
                 cause smoke emissions that are offensive to occupants in the area or cause traffic issues and
                 or other hazardous conditions.



SECTION 5: GENERAL PROHIBITION ON OUTDOOR BURNING AND OPEN BURNING

5.00    General prohibition on outdoor burning and open burning. Open burning and outdoor burning are
        prohibited in Tyrone Township unless the burning is specifically permitted by this ordinance.


SECTION 6: OPEN BURNING OF REFUSE

6.00    Open burning of refuse.
        6.1.     Open burning of refuse from a commercial or industrial establishment is prohibited unless
                 confined in an incinerator approved by permit from the Livingston County Building Department,
                 in conformance with the applicable building code as may be amended from time to time.
                 Burning shall be allowed during daylight hours only. No incinerator shall be located within the
                 side or rear yard setback.

        6.2.     Open burning of refuse from and at a one or two-family dwelling is prohibited.allowed if all of
                 the following conditions are met:

        6.2.1.   The burning does not create a nuisance. No materials shall be burned that create a foul, offensive   Formatted: Justified, Indent: Left: 0.5", Hanging: 0.5",
                 odor, or cause smoke emissions that are reasonably offensive to occupants of surrounding             Space Before: 11.55 pt
                 property.

        6.2.2.   The burning is conducted in a container constructed of metal or masonry that has a metal
                 covering or spark arrestor device that does not have an opening larger than ¾ inch. Burner
                 barrels must be located in a clear area and shall not be located less than 50 feet from any
                 building or less than 10 feet from the adjoining property line.

        6.2.3.   Open burning shall be constantly attended and supervised by a competent person of at least
                 eighteen (18) years of age until the fire is extinguished and is cold. The person shall have
                 readily available for use such fire extinguishing equipment as may be necessary for the total
                 control of the fire.

        6.2.4.   The material being burned is not prohibited under subsection 6.3.


Burn Ordinance Amendment                                                                                  Page 2
Township Board Discussion                                                                  DRAFT November 3, 2025


        6.3.6.2. Open burning of the following materials is prohibited.                                                 Formatted: Justified
                 6.3.1.6.2.1.      Construction and demolition waste.
                 6.3.2.6.2.2.  Hazardous substances including but not limited to batteries, household
                         chemicals, pesticides, used oil, gasoline, paints, varnishes, and solvents.
                 6.3.3.6.2.3.      Furniture and appliances.
                 6.3.4.6.2.4.      Tires.
                 6.3.5.6.2.5.    Any plastic materials including but not limited to nylon, PVC, ABS, polystyrene
                         or urethane foam, and synthetic fabrics, plastic films and plastic containers.
                 6.3.6.6.2.6.        Treated or painted wood including but not limited to plywood, composite
                         wood products or other wood products that are painted, varnished or treated with
                         preservatives.
                 6.3.7.6.2.7.         Garbage, trash, rubbish, animal carcasses, or other materials that create
                         a foul or offensive odor.


SECTION 7: OPEN BURNING OF TREES, LOGS, BRUSH, STUMPS, LEAVES, AND GRASS CLIPPINGS

7.0     Open Burning of trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves, and grass clippings.
        7.1.     Open burning of trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves, and grass clippings is allowed only in
                 accordance with all of the following provisions:
                 7.1.1.     Open burning of trees, logs, brush, and stumps must be conducted at least 1,400 feet
                            from an incorporated city or village limit.
                 7.1.2.     Open burning of leaves and grass clippings may be conducted from April 1st through May
                            31st and September 15th through November 30th on parcels which are three (3) acres in
                            area or greater that are located in the RE, R-1, FR and PUD zoning districts. (Please
                            reference an official copy of the Township Zoning Map).in certain zoning districts.         Formatted: Font: Bold, Font color: Custom
                 7.1.2.7.1.3.     Open burning of leaves and grass clippings is prohibited in the R-2, LK-1, and MHP    Color(RGB(42,42,45)), Not Expanded by / Condensed
                          Zoning Districts. Open burning of leaves and grass clippings is allowed in the R-1, PUD,
                          FR and RE Zoning Districts on parcels of 3 ACRES OR MORE (Please see attached Zoning
                          Map). (Please see attached Zoning Map.)
                 7.1.3.7.1.4.        Except for barbecue, gas, and charcoal grills, no open burning shall be
                          undertaken during periods when the Governor of Michigan or the local Fire Department
                          has issued a burning ban applicable to the area.
                 7.1.4.7.1.5.          All allowed open burning shall be conducted in a safe, nuisance-free manner,
                          when wind and weather conditions minimize adverse effects and do not create a health
                          hazard or a visibility hazard on roadways, railroads or airfields. Open burning shall be
                          conducted in conformance with all local and state fire protection regulations. Open burning
                          is prohibited when sustained winds are greater than 9 miles per hour.
                 7.1.5.7.1.6.          Open burning shall be conducted only on the property on which the materials
                          were generated and must be limited to one burn pile that the competent person at least
                          eighteen (18) years of age is attending and supervising with the appropriate tools and
                          capability to control. In no case shall a burn pile be is no greater than three (3) feet in
                          height nor occupy a land area greater than a 10 feet X 10 feet area.



Burn Ordinance Amendment                                                                                    Page 3
Township Board Discussion                                                                    DRAFT November 3, 2025


                 7.1.6.7.1.7.         Outdoor recreational fires are allowed provided they do not cause a nuisance.
                          The fuel area of the fire must be 3 feet or less in diameter and 2 feet or less in height and
                          must be at least 25 feet from any structure.
                 7.1.7.7.1.8.         Open burning under this section shall only be conducted at a location at least
                          100 feet from the nearest building which is not on the same property and 50 feet from the
                          nearest structure on the property and provisions shall be made to prevent the fire from
                          spreading to within 50 feet of any structure.
                 7.1.8.7.1.9.         Except for recreational fires, open burning shall only be conducted during
                          daylight hours.
                 7.1.9.7.1.10.        Open burning shall be constantly attended and supervised by a competent
                          person of at least eighteen (18) years of age until the fire is extinguished and is cold. The
                          person shall have readily available for use such fire extinguishing equipment as may be
                          necessary for the total control of the fire.
                 7.1.10.7.1.11.        No materials may be burned upon any street, curb, gutter, sidewalk, or on the
                         ice of a lake, pond, stream, or water body. No open burning is permitted within 25 feet of a
                         body of water or wetland unless it is in a metal container that prevents run off or
                         contamination into the lake.
                 7.1.11.7.1.12.       Except for barbecue, gas, and charcoal grills, no burning shall be undertaken
                         within 25 feet from any combustible material, combustible wall or pa1tition, exterior window
                         opening, exit access or exit unless authorized by the Fire Chief.
                 7.1.12. No open burning may be conducted on days when the Department of Environmental                      Formatted: Justified, Space Before: 5.4 pt
                         Quality has declared an "air quality action day" applicable to Tyrone Township.
                 7.1.13. 7.1.13      When weather conditions warrant, the Fire Chief or the State of Michigan may           Formatted: Justified
                         temporarily suspend open burning whether a burn permit is issued or not. Because
                         weather conditions significantly vary locally, it is the responsibility of the property owner to
                         assure burning can be done safely by checking with the Fire Department servicing their
                         area.
                 7.1.14. Property owners and/or residents shall refer to the Tyrone Township Hartland Deerfield             Formatted: List Paragraph, Justified, Indent: Left: 1",
                         Fire Authority website. Tyrone Township website will refer you to the Hartland Deerfield           Hanging: 0.5", Space Before: 4.6 pt, Outline numbered
                         Fire Authority website or contact the Hartland Deerfield Fire Authority by telephone to            + Level: 3 + Numbering Style: 1, 2, 3, … + Start at: 1 +
                         determine if a burning ban is in effect prior to conducting any open burning.                      Alignment: Left + Aligned at: 1.79" + Indent at: 2.3"
                                                                                                                            Formatted: Font: (Default) Arial, 10 pt, Bold, Font color:
                                                                                                                            Custom Color(RGB(26,26,28))
SECTION 8: AGRICULTURAL BURNING
                                                                                                                            Formatted: Justified
8.00    Agricultural burning. Open burning of weeds, brush, and crop stubble on agricultural lands shall
        comply with Section 7 of this Ordinance except for 7.1.2.


SECTION 9: PATIO WOOD-BURNING UNITS

9.00    Patio wood-burning units. A patio wood-burning unit may be installed and used in Tyrone
        Township only in accordance with all of the following provisions:
        9.1.     The patio wood-burning unit shall not be used to burn refuse.
        9.2.     The patio wood-burning unit shall burn only clean wood.
        9.3.     The patio wood-burning unit shall be located at least 25 feet from the nearest structure
                 which is not on the same property as the patio wood-burning unit.

Burn Ordinance Amendment                                                                                       Page 4
Township Board Discussion                                                                       DRAFT November 3, 2025


        9.4.     The patio wood-burning unit shall not cause a nuisance to neighbors.
        9.5.     A patio wood-burning unit shall not be used on a balcony of any structure

SECTION 10: LIABILITY

10.00   Liability. A person utilizing or maintaining an outdoor fire shall be responsible for controlling the fire
        set, for all fire suppression costs, and any other liability resulting from personal or property damage
        caused by the fire including costs by Tyrone Township from the intervention of the fire department or
        any other public safety unit.


SECTION 11: RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION

11.00   Right of entry and inspection. The Fire Chief or any authorized officer, agent, employee or
        representative of Tyrone Township who presents credentials may inspect any property for the purpose
        of ascertaining compliance with the provisions of this ordinance.

SECTION 12: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES

12.00   Enforcement and penalties.
        12.1.    The Tyrone Township Ordinance Enforcement Officer, elected officials, or any Fire
                 Department Official designated by the Township Board are authorized to enforce the
                 provisions of this ordinance.
        12.2.    In the event that the fire department is called to a site, the person, firm, association, partnership,
                 corporation, or governmental entity who has violated any of the provisions of this ordinance,
                 or fails to control a fire, shall be deemed to be responsible for the cost of the fire run at the
                 current board approved amount outlined in Fire Recovery Ordinance# 24, as amended.
        12.3.    Any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or governmental entity who violates any
                 of the provisions of this ordinance, fails to pay a fire run fee leveled under this ordinance, or
                 fails to comply with a duly authorized Order issued pursuant to this ordinance shall be required
                 to pay for any and all costs the Township Board determines are directly related to the violation.
                 Such costs may include, but are not limited to, the full cost of the fire run at the current board
                 approved amount outlined in Fire Recovery Ordinance #24, as amended. Repeat violations
                 may be required to pay up to three times the cost of the fire run. deemed to be responsible for
                 a municipal civil infraction as defined by Michigan Statute which shall be punishable by a
                 municipal civil fine determined in accordance with the following schedule or as amended by a
                 Township Board Resolution from time to time:

                            Municipal Civil Infraction                   Fine

                            1st Offense within 3-year period*            $100.00                                          Formatted: Justified
                            2nd Offense within 3-year period*            $300.00                                          Formatted: Justified

                            3rd or More Offense within 3-year            $500.00                                          Formatted: Justified
                            period*
                                                                                                                          Formatted: Justified
                                                                                                                          Formatted: Justified


        12.4     The violator shall pay costs which may include all expenses, direct and indirect, which Tyrone

Burn Ordinance Amendment                                                                                     Page 5
Township Board Discussion                                                                     DRAFT November 3, 2025


                 Township has incurred in connection with the ordinance violationmunicipal infraction. Tyrone
                 Township shall have the right to proceed in any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose
                 of obtaining an injunction, restraining order, or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance
                 with this Ordinance. Each day that a violation of this Ordinance exists shall constitute a
                 separate violation of this Ordinance.
        12.5     In the event that any costs or civil infraction fines are not paid, Tyrone Township reserves the
                 right to pursue collection through all legal means including court action and/or placing a lien on
                 the property.


SECTION 13: EFFECTIVE DATE

13.00 This Ordinance shall take effect _____________, 2025 following its publication after adoption in
      accordance with state statutes. All provisions of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.




Burn Ordinance Amendment                                                                                  Page 6
Township Board Discussion                                                                  DRAFT November 3, 2025


UNFINISHED BUSINESS #4

Weed treatment around the fire well.

(No documents attached.)



UNFINISHED BUSINESS #5

Policy to add opinions and judgments of lawsuits
as Communications.



                              RESOLUTION #2512xx
                      TYRONE TOWNSHIP, LIVINGSTON COUNTY

         POLICY PLACING LAWSUIT OPINIONS AND JUDGMENTS UNDER
                  COMMUNICATIONS ON BOARD AGENDAS


       WHEREAS, Tyrone Township embraces openness and transparency; and

       WHEREAS, Tyrone Township believes it is in the best interest of the residents to
recognize the outcomes of lawsuits.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Tyrone Township shall place the
opinions and judgments of lawsuits, regardless of the outcome, under Communications on Tyrone
Township Board meeting agendas.


RESOLVED BY:
SUPPORTED BY:

VOTE:

ADOPTION DATE: December 2, 2025


                             CERTIFICATION OF THE CLERK

The undersigned, being the duly qualified and acting Clerk of Tyrone Township, Livingston
County, Michigan, hereby certifies that (1) the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a resolution
adopted by the Township Board at a regular meeting, held on December 2, 2025, at which meeting
a quorum was present and remained throughout, (2) the original thereof is on file in the records in
my office, (3) the meeting was conducted, and public notice thereof was given, pursuant to and in
full compliance with the Open Meetings Act (Act No. 267, Public Acts of Michigan, 1976, as
amended) and (4) minutes of such meeting were kept and will be or have been made available as
required thereby.


                           ____________________________________
                                      Pamela Moughler
                                       Township Clerk


    NEW BUSINESS #1

Resignation of Trustee Sara Dollman-Jersey.






   NEW BUSINESS #2

Medical marijuana moratorium extension.


                                   RESOLUTION #2512xx
                           TYRONE TOWNSHIP, LIVINGSTON COUNTY

                          TO ESTABLISH A 180 DAY MORATORIUM
                       ON THE DEVELOPMENT, PERMITTING AND/OR
                       OPENING OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES

      WHEREAS, the State of Michigan has in place the Michigan Medical Marijuana Act, Initiated
Law 1 of 2008, (the “Act”).
        WHEREAS, inquires have been made of Tyrone Township (the “Township”) concerning the
regulation of Medical Marijuana in the Township.
        WHEREAS, the Tyrone Township Board (the “Board”) believes it is in the best interest of the
Township to re-examine the Act and any rules, regulations, case law, attorney general opinions and/or
other information concerning the Act, and to amend the Tyrone Township Zoning Ordinance #36 with
respect to the Act and to receive public opinion with respect to the effect and impact of same.
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Tyrone Township Board as follows:
1. The Board hereby places a 180-day moratorium on any and all development, permitting and/or
   opening of medical marijuana facilities in the Township.
2. The Board hereby requests the Tyrone Township Planning Commission to receive public input and
   examine the Act and any rules, regulations, amendments, case law, attorney general opinions and/or
   other information concerning the Act it deems prudent in order to make a recommendation to the
   Board as to what regulations/ordinances, if any, it believes should be amended by the Township with
   respect to the Act.
RESOLVED BY:
SUPPORTED BY:
VOTE:
ADOPTION DATE: December 2, 2025
                                  CERTIFICATION OF THE CLERK
The undersigned, being the duly qualified and acting Clerk of Tyrone Township, Livingston County, Michigan,
hereby certifies that (1) the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a resolution adopted by the Township
Board at a regular meeting, held on December 2, 2025, at which meeting a quorum was present and remained
throughout, (2) the original thereof is on file in the records in my office, (3) the meeting was conducted, and
public notice thereof was given, pursuant to and in full compliance with the Open Meetings Act (Act No. 267,
Public Acts of Michigan, 1976, as amended) and (4) minutes of such meeting were kept and will be or have
been made available as required thereby.

                               ____________________________________
                                          Pamela Moughler
                                           Township Clerk


NEW BUSINESS #3

 AI Data Center moratorium.


                              RESOLUTION #2512XX
                      TYRONE TOWNSHIP, LIVINGSTON COUNTY

         MORATORIUM ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLEGENCE DATA CENTERS


        WHEREAS, the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, 2006 P.A. being MCL 125.3101 et seq.,
authorizes Tyrone Township (the "Township") to adopt reasonable regulations to control the
establishment and use of Artificial Intelligence Data Centers in accordance with the Township's
Master Plan; and

        WHEREAS, the Township has become aware of an increase of Artificial Intelligence
Data Centers in the region, which is an emerging land use not sufficiently contemplated in the
current Master Plan nor by the current zoning for anywhere in the Township; and

        WHEREAS, integration of Artificial Intelligence Data Center land use within the
Township's existing land uses requires suitable regulations and controls to ensure compliance with
the Township's Master Plan, among other things, by preserving agricultural property, and for the
protection of general health, safety and welfare of all of the Township's residents;

        WHEREAS, this Board believes it is prudent and wise in light of the emergence of
Artificial Intelligence Data Center land uses in the region, to assure proper locating and regulation
of these land uses in the Township and must consider this Resolution for Moratorium on Artificial
Intelligence Data Centers so as to better protect the public health, safety, and Welfare of Township
residents; and

        WHEREAS, imposing a moratorium, on a limited temporary basis, is reasonable and
necessary in order to allow the Township to fully explore, analyze, research and develop proposed
amendments to the Master Plan and the Township Zoning Ordinance, and to make
recommendations to the Township Board regarding such amendments applicable to Artificial
Intelligence Data Center uses in the Township; and

        NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, a moratorium Is hereby imposed upon the
issuance of any and all permits, licenses, or approvals for any property subject ta or under the
jurisdiction of the Township's Zoning Ordinance for the establishment or use of any new Artificial


Intelligence Data Center uses in the Township. The moratorium imposed by this Resolution shall
remain in effect for six (6) months following the effective date of this Resolution, or until
Artificial Intelligence Data Centers regulatory amendments to the Township's Zoning Ordinance
become effective, whichever occurs first. Before this moratorium expires, the Township may by
resolution extend the moratorium for up to six (6) months to allow sufficient time to complete
amendments to its Ordinances, if necessary. If an extension is adopted, the Township will publish
notice of the extension.

RESOLVED BY:
SUPPORTED BY:

VOTE:

ADOPTION DATE: December 2, 2025

                                CERTIFICATION OF THE CLERK

The undersigned, being the duly qualified and acting Clerk of Tyrone Township, Livingston
County, Michigan, hereby certifies that (1) the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a
resolution adopted by the Township Board at a regular meeting, held on December 2, 2025, at
which meeting a quorum was present and remained throughout, (2) the original thereof is on file
in the records in my office, (3) the meeting was conducted, and public notice thereof was given,
pursuant to and in full compliance with the Open Meetings Act (Act No. 267, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1976, as amended) and (4) minutes of such meeting were kept and will be or have been
made available as required thereby.


                             ____________________________________
                                        Pamela Moughler
                                         Township Clerk


NEW BUSINESS #4

   Sewer rates for 2026.
















































           NEW BUSINESS #5

Closed session to consult with the attorney regarding the
pending litigation of Milarch v. Tyrone Township because
an open meeting would have a detrimental ﬁnancial
eﬀect on the litigating or settlement position of the
township.
