                                    NORVELL TOWNSHIP

                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2026-02

  AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE NORVELL TOWNSHIP ZONING ORDINANCE
                     REGARDING MORATORIA

The Township of Norvell ordains:

Section 1.     Addition of New Section 16.11 Moratoriums to Article 16 General
               Administration and Enforcement of the Norvell Township Zoning Ordinance.

A new Section 16.11 Temporary Moratoriums is added to the Norvell Township Zoning Ordinance
and reads in its entirety as follows:

Section 16.11 Temporary Moratoriums
   A. Township Board. The Township Board may, by resolution, impose a temporary moratorium
       on the review or issuance of any applications, permits, rezonings, licenses, or approvals for
       existing, new, or emerging land uses in the Township if the Township Board determines
       that a temporary moratorium is necessary to review, enact, or amend provisions of the
       master plan or zoning ordinance to address land uses that may impact the health, safety, or
       welfare of Township residents or property.
   B. Planning Commission. A temporary moratorium may also be imposed by the Township
       Board upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission when the Planning
       Commission determines that a moratorium is needed to allow it sufficient time to review
       and recommend amendments to the master plan or zoning ordinance concerning existing,
       new, or emerging land uses that may adversely affect the health, safety, or welfare of
       Township residents or property.
   C. Resolution. The resolution must state the purpose of the moratorium and include findings
       of the Township Board or Planning Commission in support of the moratorium and why the
       Township Board has determined that the temporary moratorium is necessary and in the best
       interest of the public health, safety, or welfare.
   D. Length of Time. Any resolution adopted pursuant to this Section must specify the length of
       the initial moratorium which shall not exceed twelve (12) months. In addition to the initial
       moratorium, the Township Board may extend the temporary moratorium if the Township
       Board determines that more time is necessary to review, enact, or amend provisions of the
       master plan or zoning ordinance to regulate land uses. Any extension shall not exceed six
       (6) additional months.
   E. Required Notice. Notice of the resolution must be published within fifteen (15) days of its
       adoption. The notice must include the following:
           1. A summary of the resolution’s effect.
           2. The length of the moratorium and whether an extension is possible.
           3. Where the public may inspect the resolution enacting the moratorium.
Section 2.     Validity and Severability.

If any portion of this Ordinance is found invalid for any reason, such holding will not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance.
Section 3.      Repealer.

Any ordinances or parts of ordinances that conflict with this Ordinance are repealed, but only to
the extent necessary to give this Ordinance full force and effect.

Section 4.     Effective Date.

This Ordinance takes effect 7 days from the date of publication of notice of adoption as provided
by law.

Date of Approval: April 20, 2026
Date of Publication: April 28, 2026
Date of Adoption: May 5, 2026
