                                 CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF MONITOR
                                SPECIAL TOWNSHIP BOARD MEETING
                                          March 26, 2026

The Supervisor called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.

Pledge of Allegiance was recited by all.

Members present: Spencer, Stewart, Kloha, Arnold, Bellor, Meier
Members absent: Meylan
Township Attorney R. Sheppard was present.

Public Input was held.

Motion by Bellor was seconded by Kloha to adopt the agenda.
Motion carried.

Opened Public hearing at 5:03 for citizen input regarding a proposed Michigan Land and Water
Conservation Fund grant application for improvements at Monitor Township Park located on 3 Mile
Road between Midland and North Union Roads.

D. Scherzer, Spicer Engineering, explained the DNR grant application is due April 1st. He had the
conceptual plan up for all to see. The grant is for $500,000 with $250,000 matching funds from the
Township. Plans are to make paving improvements with accessible ADA spots, add additional gravel to
the driveway, signs, landscaping, more walking paths, 2 pickleball courts, a basketball court, additional
sidewalks for access.
The Township should hear back by November or December if granted, may be even June 2027. Hope
to start in fall of 2027 and construction in 2028. Prices are only forecast for two years out. This is like
what was done for Steih Park grant and the past 2 park improvement grants at this park.

Supervisor, T. Spencer asked about maintenance costs. D. Scherzer said nets would need to be taken
up and down for seasonal use, recoloring the of the markings would need done as it will wear off.

J. Meier, Trustee, questioned how many bids we would get. D. Scherzer will have an engineering plan
designed with all the specifications sent out for bid on the entire project, once bids are received by
qualified contractors and reviewed, the DNR and the Township board would award the contract.

E. Arnold, Trustee, commented that it would be 2 million to finish the project. The grant could all be
used to blacktop the parking lot and asked if it would it need graded in the winter. He wants the paving
to be done last so the heavy equipment does not damage it.

T. Spencer, the biggest complaint about the park is that it is a mud pit.

J. Bellor, Trustee, asked to please clarify that we can only delete from the project and not add to it. Don
– Yes.

D. Scherzer, point scoring areas cannot be cut from the final project.

Ashley Kloha, Treasurer, commented to do ½ the parking and ½ of the park plan with the grant.

J. Bellor, eliminate the (paving of the) parking until park area is done. Do it last because of the heavy
equipment.



                                             Charter Township of Monitor
                                  Special Township Board Meeting of March 26, 2026
                                                       Page 1
Rob Clark, resident, 4764 Birnbaum, spoke about the public/private partnership that Maplewood Park
complex utilized in their park construction project. He expressed his concern that the township park
should be a shining diamond and available for opportunity to use by coaches for soccer team practice.
He currently takes his soccer team to Williams Township Park to practice. He realizes pickleball,
basketball and parking are very important. The first phase should be what attracts most people,
playgrounds, dog parks, pickleball will, basketball? The parking lot is a major deterrent, support that
first. For infrastructure look for partnerships. He would reach out to BASA to ask if they would partner
with the Township for the soccer fields, if the Township would support such a request.

E. Arnold, not against it, it’s just the first discussion here.

R. Clark, foundations do not support parking lots, but they will soccer fields.

D. Scherzer, DNR will only because it has accessible parking.

J. Meier, how much has the cell tower in the park contributed? Wasn’t this designated for park
improvements?

T. Spencer, from 2020 to date over $480,000.

Charlene Malkin, resident, 4819 Dorey drive, years ago she took her daughter to the park for T-ball and
there was not enough parking, are you expanding parking? Yes, it is a mud pit now. She just had knee
surgery and needs to exercise but the handicap parking at the park is usually full. She needs a flat
surface to walk on. Once her knees are healed, she wants to play pickleball as her daughter does.
Pickleball courts in Grand Rapids require 2 weeks’ advance reservation. Also, please put signage how
many feet around the park that I am getting when I walk there.

D. Scherzer, the 1st phase includes a 40’x 20’ ADA parking pad for an estimated cost of $48,000. The
rest of the parking lot is just gravel to fill in the holes. He then stated the rest of the estimated costs
included for the 1st phase.

Ashley Kloha, start with 2 pickleball, and the 1/2 basketball court.

E. Arnold, the totals $416,000, $74,000 general, $83,000 Engineer?

J. Meier, can costs be reallocated if not used on each item? Don assured him yes.

T. Spencer, everything that Spicer has done for the Township has been under budget, the fire station,
Steih park, and the sewer project.

D Scherzer, we want to get a grant, that’s what we are deciding tonight.

Joy Kruger, resident, 1970 the park was a mud hole from when the expressway (base) was removed,
soccer would be used more than basketball.

R. Clark emphasized strategizing a capital campaign, big ideas, including a Monitor Township Park
soccer field. Currently over 1,000 kids play soccer at BASA. They host 2 tournaments. Last year they
used John Glenn High school too. Would the Township entertain being a partner? Then reach out to
BASA to find the money.

J. Meier, BASA area has traffic jams.

R. Clark, Overflow parking available is at the ISD. I can’t help that people don’t park there.

                                               Charter Township of Monitor
                                    Special Township Board Meeting of March 26, 2026
                                                         Page 2
J. Bellor, it would be a great asset to partner with BASA.

L. Stewart, use the $250,000 as committed for the grant and with the balance earned from the cell
tower finish the parking lot.

T. Spencer, Monitor Township has the best roads, houses, infrastructure and now a great opportunity to
do park improvements.

R. Clark, the park has great space, create a place lots of people go to. Fill it up.

Closed Public hearing at 5:55 p.m.

Motion by Bellor seconded by Kloha to adopt R-2026-003 Resolution - Support for 2026 DNR Land and
Water Conservation Fund Application.
Roll call vote:
Yes:      Spencer, Stewart, Kloha, Arnold, Bellor, Meier
No:        None
Absent: Meylan
Motion carried.

Motion by Bellor seconded by Kloha to adopt and have second reading of Ordinance 67-U Declaring a
Moratorium on Data Center Construction and Approval for a period of one year within the Charter
Township of Monitor.
Roll call vote:
Yes:      Stewart, Kloha, Bellor, Spencer
No:       Arnold, Meier
Absent: Meylan
Motion carried.

Motion by Kloha seconded by Meier to adjourn at 5:56 p.m. Motion unanimously carried.
Linda K. Stewart, MiPMC, Clerk - Charter Township of Monitor




                                             Charter Township of Monitor
                                  Special Township Board Meeting of March 26, 2026
                                                       Page 3
