                                  HILLSDALE TOWNSHIP
                   COUNTY OF HILLSDALE, STATE OF MICHIGAN
                               ORDINANCE NO. 2026-06-02
                                   ADOPTED: June 9, 2026
                                  EFFECTIVE: July 2, 2026
                  ZONING ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
               TEMPORARY MORATORIUM AUTHORITY,
            DATA CENTER TEMPORARY MORATORIUM AND
     TEMPORARY LARGE RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECTS MORATORIUM
     An Ordinance to protect the public health, safety, and welfare by amending the Zoning
Ordinance to authorize temporary moratoriums; to establish a temporary moratorium on the
acceptance and review of applications for data centers and/or large renewable energy projects; to
allow for an extension of a temporary moratorium; to provide for severability; to repeal all
ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict therewith; and to provide an effective date.


                                  HILLSDALE TOWNSHIP

                            HILLSDALE COUNTY, MICHIGAN
                                          ORDAINS:

                                          SECTION I
                                          FINDINGS

        In accordance with Public Act 1945 PA 246, as amended and PA 110 of 2006, as amended,
the Hillsdale Township Board of Trustees has determined the following:

       1. That the approval of data centers and/or large renewable energy projects including
          solar energy projects 50 MW or larger, wind energy projects 100 MW or larger,
          battery storage projects 50 MW or larger or hybrid projects 50 MW or larger, may
          result in or produce negative impacts on permitted land uses and development and
          may harm the public health, safety and general welfare of property owners and
          residents of Hillsdale Township.

       2. The Township Board has received comments and information from the public raising
          public health, safety, and welfare concerns about the impacts of data centers and/or
          large renewable energy projects including solar energy projects 50 MW or larger, wind
          energy projects 100 MW or larger, battery storage projects 50 MW or larger or hybrid
          projects 50 MW or larger on the residents and property owners of the Township; the
          Township has a fiduciary duty to promote the health, safety and general welfare of
             property owners and residents within its territorial boundaries.

       3. The Township has a legitimate public purpose in assessing the regulation of the
          establishment and use of data centers and/or large renewable energy projects including
          solar energy projects 50 MW or larger, wind energy projects 100 MW or larger, battery
          storage projects 50 MW or larger or hybrid projects 50 MW or larger, within the
          Township to ensure that these land uses do not interfere with other land uses, or have
          substantial negative impacts on the environment, public, health and safety.

       4. The Township Board finds that adopting a temporary moratorium is reasonable and
          necessary for, among other reasons, the following reasons:

             A. Michigan courts have recognized that a moratorium is a common and
                legitimate tool to preserve the status quo while formulating a development
                strategy.

             B. The Township Board desires to review and study the public health, safety,
                and welfare concerns regarding data centers and/or large renewable energy
                projects and any Township regulations that may impact and/or regulate such
                projects.

             C. The adoption of a temporary moratorium will allow the Township Board
                adequate time to study and possibly implement revisions to the Township’s
                Ordinances and regulations, including attention to and consideration of
                citizen input and involvement, public debate, and full consideration of all
                issues and points of view.

       5. The Township Board accordingly determines that it is desirable and in the public
          interest for the reasons set forth above that the Township Board adopt a temporary
          moratorium on the acceptance and/or processing of any applications for data centers
          and/or large renewable energy projects.

                                  SECTION II
                        AMENDMENT OF ARTICLE 18 –RESERVED

Article 18 is hereby amended to include authority and regulations regarding temporary
moratoriums and shall read as follows:

Article 18      TEMPORARY ZONING MORATORIUM

Section 18.1 Temporary Moratorium



       A. The Planning Commission has the authority to recommend the establishment of a
          temporary moratorium as to the application of provisions of the Zoning Ordinance to
          the Township Board, by majority vote of the Planning Commission.
                                                  2
      B. The Township Board may impose a temporary moratorium as to the application of the
         provisions of the Zoning Ordinance by adoption of an ordinance.

      C. A temporary moratorium may be extended by resolution of the Township Board to
         allow additional time for Township review and consideration of any application,
         revision, review or repeal/replacement of zoning ordinance provisions.

Section 18.2 Temporary Zoning Moratorium for Data Centers

   A. Temporary Moratorium on Data Centers. The Township Board determines that it is
      desirable and in the public interest to adopt a temporary moratorium on the acceptance
      and/or processing of any applications for data centers. A temporary moratorium is imposed
      upon the acceptance and/or processing of any applications for a data center and will remain
      in effect for one year from the effective date of this ordinance or until amendments to the
      Zoning Ordinance regarding data centers become effective, whichever occurs first.

   B. Term of Temporary Moratorium/Extension of Moratorium. The moratorium imposed by
      this ordinance will remain in effect for one year from the effective date of this ordinance
      or until amendments to the Zoning Ordinance regarding data centers become effective,
      whichever occurs first.

   C. Extension of Temporary Moratorium. Before this moratorium expires, the Township
      Board may extend the moratorium by resolution as appropriate to allow sufficient time to
      complete amendments to its ordinances.


Section 18.3 Temporary Zoning Moratorium for Large Renewable Energy Projects

   A. Temporary Moratorium on Large Renewable Energy Projects. The Township Board
      determines that it is desirable and in the public interest to adopt a temporary moratorium
      on the acceptance and/or processing of any applications for large renewable energy projects
      including solar energy projects 50 MW or larger, wind energy projects 100 MW or larger,
      battery storage projects 50 MW or larger or hybrid projects 50 MW or larger. A temporary
      moratorium is imposed upon the acceptance and/or processing of any applications for large
      renewable energy projects including solar energy projects 50 MW or larger, wind energy
      projects 100 MW or larger, battery storage projects 50 MW or larger or hybrid projects 50
      MW or larger and will remain in effect for one year from the effective date of this ordinance
      or until amendments to the Zoning Ordinance regarding the specific type of large
      renewable energy project becomes effective, whichever occurs first. If Zoning Ordinance
      amendments regarding one type of large renewable energy project become effective, the
      temporary moratorium regarding other types of large renewable energy projects still
      remains in effect.

   B. Term of Temporary Moratorium/Extension of Moratorium. The moratorium imposed by
      this ordinance will remain in effect for one year from the effective date of this ordinance
      or until amendments to the Zoning Ordinance regarding large renewable energy projects
      including solar energy projects 50 MW or larger, wind energy projects 100 MW or larger,
      battery storage projects 50 MW or larger or hybrid projects 50 MW or larger
                                                3
       become effective, whichever occurs first. If Zoning Ordinance amendments regarding one
       type of large renewable energy project become effective, the temporary moratorium
       regarding other types of large renewable energy projects still remains in effect.

   C. Extension of Temporary Moratorium. Before this moratorium expires, the Township
      Board may extend the moratorium by resolution as appropriate to allow sufficient time to
      complete amendments to its ordinances.


                                         SECTION IV
                                        SEVERABILITY

The provisions of this Ordinance are hereby declared to be severable. If any clause, sentence, word,
section or provision is hereafter declared void or unenforceable for any reason by a court of
competent jurisdiction, it shall not affect the remainder of such Ordinance which shall continue in
full force and effect.



                                          SECTION V
                                           REPEAL

All Ordinance or parts of Ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.


                                        SECTION VI
                                      EFFECTIVE DATE

This Ordinance shall become effective eight (8) days after publication after adoption.

                                    HILLSDALE TOWNSHIP
                                       Janel Stewart, Clerk
                                          P.O. Box 181
                                    Hillsdale, Michigan 49242
                                          517-437-7420




                                                 4
