                             Pittsfield Charter Township
                    6201 West Michigan Avenue, Ann Arbor, MI 48108
                                Phone: (734) 822-3101
                            Website: www.pittsfield-mi.gov




                                                                       November 20, 2025

                     BOARD OF TRUSTEES SPECIAL MEETING
                                  AGENDA

1. Call Meeting to Order/Pledge of Allegiance/Roll Call/Determination of a Quorum
2. Approval of Agenda
   2.1    Approval of Agenda

3. Public Comment I and Board Response

   Any person may come forward at this time to address the Board. Anyone who
   wishes to speak is requested but not required to state his/her name and address
   for the record.

   3.1    Public Comment I
   3.2    Board Response

4. New Business

   4.1    Adopt a Resolution Instituting a Temporary Moratorium on Approval of Data
          Centers

5. Public Comment II and Board Response

   Any person may come forward at this time to address the Board. Anyone who
   wishes to speak is requested but not required to state his/her name and address
   for the record.

   5.1    Public Comment II
   5.2    Board Response to Public Comment II

6. Adjournment

 Anyone who requires a reasonable auxiliary aid or service for effective communication
 and participation in the meeting should contact the Clerk’s Office as soon as possible,
 but no later than three business days before the meeting. The Clerk’s Office can be
 reached by email at Clerk@pittsfield-mi.gov or by phone at (734) 822-3120.


                           PITTSFIELD CHARTER TOWNSHIP
                           WASHTENAW COUNTY, MICHIGAN
                                     RES #25-30

                    RESOLUTION INSTITUTING A TEMPORARY
                  MORATORIUM ON APPROVAL OF DATA CENTERS

                                    NOVEMBER 20, 2025

At a Special Meeting of the Township Board of Pittsfield Charter Township, Washtenaw
County, Michigan, held at the Township Administration Building located at 6201 W. Michigan
Avenue in said Township, on the 20th day of November 2025 at 2:00 p.m.


       Present:
       Absent:

The following preamble and resolution were offered by _________ and supported by
___________.

WHEREAS, the Pittsfield Charter Township Zoning Ordinance does not address data centers;
and

WHEREAS, data centers are being proposed in neighboring communities; and

WHEREAS, for the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of Pittsfield Charter Township,
and for the protection of its natural resources, it is necessary that portions of the Ordinance be
revised and rewritten to regulate data centers and clearly define the parameters for their
consideration by the Township; and

WHEREAS, the Pittsfield Charter Township Board has concluded that it is necessary to study
and consider proposed amendments to the Zoning Ordinance to ensure a consistent, cohesive,
and sensible policy which conforms to the most recent jurisprudence is developed and
maintained with regard to data centers and regulation of data centers; and

WHEREAS, the Township Board has concluded that, during the pendency of such
consideration, it would be counter-productive for applications relating to data centers to move
forward; and

WHEREAS, the Township Board has concluded that, during the course of deliberations on the
anticipated revisions, there should be a deferral of review of data center applications; and

WHEREAS, the Township Board also recognizes that a delay in the establishment of new
development or the expansion of existing development, or the rezoning of property, or the
granting of Zoning Compliance Applications or licenses, could result in inconvenience for some
applicants; and


WHEREAS, the Township Board has determined that it may be necessary to expedite the
pursuit of certain development or business opportunities, and may be appropriate to provide a
mechanism allowing a petition to the Township Board for an exception to the deferral contained
in this Resolution;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that for a period commencing on the date of this
Resolution, and terminating 180 days from the date of this Resolution, and except as otherwise
provided herein, and unless terminated earlier by subsequent ordinance or resolution, there shall
be no consideration or action taken by a Township entity, official, or agent on Zoning
Compliance Applications for data centers.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that no new data centers shall be accepted for review,
considered, approved, or otherwise allowed during the moratorium period.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Township Planning Commissioners, along with the
Township Planners, the Township Engineers, Township Officials, and Township Attorney, shall
proceed with efforts to study the relevant state of the law, and shall present to the Township
Board a proposed plan for amending the Zoning Ordinance, or the code of ordinances, or any
combination thereof, with respect to applicants for data centers as deemed appropriate.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that during the effective period of the deferral, any aggrieved
property owner or business shall be entitled to a hearing for the purpose of attempting to
demonstrate to the Township Board that the temporary deferral pronounced in this Resolution
will result in the preclusion of any viable economic use of their property, or otherwise violates
applicable provisions of State or Federal law. Such hearings shall be conducted on an expedited
basis before the Township Board. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Township Board shall
make findings and conclusions with respect to whether the Petitioner has demonstrated that all
viable economic use of the property has been precluded by the temporary deferment adopted in
this Resolution, and whether this Resolution is unconstitutional on its face or as applied to the
Petitioner’s case. If it is found and demonstrated that the deferment has the effect of precluding
all viable use of the property, or that it violates State or Federal law, the Township Board shall
grant relief from the deferment to the degree necessary to cure the contravention.

ROLL CALL VOTE:
       AYES:          -
       NAYS:          -
       ABSENT:        -
       ABSTAIN:       -

RESOLUTION DECLARED                         .


Trish Reilly, Supervisor
Pittsfield Charter Township

DATED: 2025


                                        CERTIFICATE
I, Michelle L. Anzaldi, hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a
resolution adopted by the Township Board of Pittsfield Charter Township, County of Washtenaw,
State of Michigan, at a Special Meeting held on November 20, 2025, and that said meeting was
conducted and public notice of said meeting was given pursuant to and in full compliance with
the Open Meetings Act, being Act 267, Public Acts of Michigan, 1976, and that the minutes of
said meeting were kept and will be or have been made available as required by said Act.




______________________
Michelle L. Anzaldi, Clerk
Pittsfield Charter Township

Dated: ________________ 2025
