                     PLANNING COMMISSION REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

                   Tuesday, July 21, 2026, at 6:00PM Saugatuck Township Hall,

                       3461 Blue Star Highway, Saugatuck, Michigan 49453

                                          Approved Minutes

Call to Order: Chair Webster called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m.

Roll Call, Pledge of Allegiance- Present: Butler, McFadden, Webster, Ground, Manning, Osman.
Absent: Stannis. Also present: L. Wells, PC Administrator

Approval of Agenda

Motion by Butler, supported by Manning, to approve the agenda as amended:

     •   Addition of Letter from Coastal Alliance under Correspondence and in packet.
     •   Request for postponement from Nick Cappelletti for a Site Plan Amendment and Similar
         Use Determination for Cappizzo.

Motion carried by unanimous voice vote of those present.

Approval of Minutes
 A. May 25, 2026, minutes

         Chair Webster noted that meeting minutes are a synopsis of the meeting only, videotaped
         meetings are online for a period of one year for public viewing.

Motion by Butler, supported by Osman, to approve May 26, 2026, meeting minutes as amended:
correction to “Stannis” name, “no additional docks, and boats shall parallel park”. Motion carried by
unanimous voice vote of those present.

Public Comment

    •    Elaine Starrett Isely, Executive Director of the Saugatuck Dunes Coastal Alliance, thanked
         Commissioners for including the Alliance letter into the minutes.
    •    Scott Renolds, President of Wishbone located in Douglas. Wishbone recently received a
         monetary gift, as a non-profit they are seeking assurance that the conceptual drawing will
         conform to Township requirements prior to investing in design services for a new building
         located at 134th and Blue Star. Chair Webster directed Mr. Renolds to continue working with
         Ms. Wells.

Old Business -None

New Business

         A. Site Plan Amendment and similar Use Determination for Capizzo as a use similar to
            Cultural Institution in the C-1 District, Nick Cappelletti, 3279 Blue Star Highway, Parcel
            20- 010-036-00.
            Wells reported the applicant, Nick Cappelletti had emailed a request to postpone his
            application. Chair Webster directed Commissioners to keep their packet information.
Motion by Butler, supported by Manning to postpone the Site Plan Amendment and similar Use
Determination for Cappizzo as a use similar to Cultural institution in the C-1 District as requested
by Nick Cappelletti (applicant). Motion carried by unanimous voice vote of those present.


        B. Approval of the Letter to MSHDA related to Housing Readiness Grant.
           Wells stated to close the Grant a letter from the Township must be sent.

Motion by McFadden, supported by Manning, to approve and send the letter to MSHDA. McFadden
will sign the letter when it is ready. Motion carried by unanimous voice vote of those present.

Communications

       A. Correspondence
          • Letters for Capizzo (pending)
          • 17 pg. Correspondence Letter from Coastal Alliance added to the packet.
       B. Staff/Project Updates
          • Enforcement, Lakeshore Drive -Wells stated she is following up with the County and
         E.A.G.L.E
          • Data Center Ordinance – Wells stated the Ordinance is with the Township Attorney.
       C. Planning Commission Comments
          • Butler addressed the property at 133rd St. on Old Allegan Road; the slope of the
          pond is concerning and may not be able to retain plant material.
          • Webster requested Commissioners review the Special Land Use requirements prior
          to new requests. Expressed concerns with the increase of traffic as new developments
          proceed.
          • Manning addressed the high volume of garbage left after seasonal rentals leave,
          concerned with cans left at road along Lakeshore drive, south of the washout, for length
          of time.
          • Osman stated Saugatuck’s recent rental changes have contributed to an increase
          in the Townships rental units.
       D. Township Board Report- Osman delivered.

Second Public Comment - None

Adjourn

Motion by Butler, supported by McFadden, to adjourn. Motion carried by unanimous voice vote.
Meeting adjourned at 6:55 p.m.



Respectfully submitted by Pamela Aalderink on 7/22/2026
Motion Page



Motion by Butler, supported by Manning, to approve the agenda as amended:

     •   Addition of Letter from Coastal Alliance under Correspondence and in packet.
     •   Request for postponement from Nick Cappeletti for a Site Plan Amendment and Similar
         Use Determination for Cappizzo.

Motion carried by unanimous voice vote of those present.




Motion by Butler, supported by Osman, to approve May 26, 2026, meeting minutes as amended:
correction to “Stannis” name, “no additional docks, and boats shall parallel park”. Motion carried by
unanimous voice vote of those present.



Motion by Butler, supported by Manning to postpone the Site Plan Amendment and similar Use
Determination for Cappizzo as a use similar to Cultural institution in the C-1 District as requested
by Nick Cappelletti (applicant). Motion carried by unanimous voice vote of those present.



Motion by McFadden, supported by Manning, to approve and send the letter to MSHDA. McFadden
will sign the letter when it is ready. Motion carried by unanimous voice vote of those present.
