                                                REGULAR MEETING
                                        LENOX TOWNSHIP BOARD OF TRUSTEES
                                                  JULY 13, 2026


 1.     CALL TO ORDER:                                                       6:30 PM
        MEMBERS PRESENT:                                                     Reeder, Gurley, Sutherland, Marino, Rosseel
        ATTORNEY PRESENT:                                                    Addis
        RESIDENTS AND GUESTS PRESENT:                                        264
 2.     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
 3.     APPROVAL OF MEETING AGENDA

Motion: Gurley Support: Rosseel
Motion to approve the July 13, 2026 Agenda as written. All Ayes. Motion passes.
 4.    APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion: Rosseel Support: Marino
Motion to approve the minutes from June 1, 2026, June 9, 2026, June 29, 2026, and July 8, 2026. All Ayes. Motion passes.

 5.    PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS
There were no Public Announcements at this time.

 6.    PUBLIC COMMENT
A, Duewecke, IBEW 58, commented on power grid demand and data center usage.
J. Podgurski, Quail Run, remarked on natural drains, environmental restrictions, and governmental agencies.
A. McCabe, Frost Road, spoke on protected watersheds, hazardous waste, and proposed moratorium.
J. Nolan, commented on data center migration, technologies, and discussion.
C. Ferriby, remarked on pollution, power outages, and data centers.
Comment on fire hazard risk, smoke, and chemicals.
L. Gibson, commented on water quality, geothermal cooling, and gas powered turbines.
Comment regarding electrical utilization, auxiliary power, and generators.
New Haven Resident spoke about noise, health toll, and sound pollution.
D. VanDeKerkhove, New Haven, remarked on intentions, reimplementation, and ordinances.
Concerned Resident commented on data centers, benefits, and public services.
Denise, Lenox Township, spoke on procedures, initiatives, and technology.
Frank, remarked on following rules and the law.
Comment on I-94 Development District and tax abatement.
Jake, commented on open minds, and differing opinions.
B. Hawk, spoke on economic development and working agreements.
Kyle, remarked on following the law and respecting the legal process.
J. Martinez, Detroit Regional Chamber, remarked on future economy, and nearby job potential.

                                                                                                                           1
T. Samander, 59111, remarked on support, neutrality, and fraud.
Comment on direction, economic development, and preparation initiative.
Comment on innovation, technology, and United States development.
J. Robinson, Detroit Regional Partnership, remarked on new industrial, engineering, and manufacturing jobs, and growth opportunity.
Tim, commented on thankless work, emerging technologies, and deliberation.
Comment on mob mentality, economic development, and selfishness.
E. Gala, 27 Mile Road resident, remarked on technology benefits, taking chances, and opportunity.
Dakota, Peters, Michigan, remarked on generating jobs, making income, and AI.
Jessica, Peters, commented on infrastructure need, and pride.
L. Morrow, New Haven, spoke on battery energy storage systems, Environmental Protection Agency, and ordinance protection.
J. Hampton, Lenox, commented on industrial complex building, poorly written ordinances, and specialized training.
S. Dodge, spoke on I-94 Development District, recall, and resignation.
Jessica, Lenox, remarked on union representation, paid meeting attendants, and data centers.
R. Schultz, Mussey Township, commented on data center stoppage and oaths.
A. McGilvray, Lenox, commented on opposition, limitation, and meeting procedure.
A. Bernard, remarked on reconsideration, truth, and public meetings.
Rodney, New Haven, commented on workplace safety and water usage comparison.
S. Finley, Chesterfield, Township, remarked on data collection, generating jobs, and AI.
Colleen, New Haven, commented on master plan, morals, and data center.
K. Riemer, remarked on fundamental truth, collective will, and sidewalks.
B. Meissen, New Haven, commented by thanking Jeff White, Richmond Lenox EMS, and SMART.
Kristy, 30 Mile Road, Lenox Township, remarked on data center consequences, union representation, and protection of rights.
B. Oakley, 29185 27 Mile Road, commented on ordinances, opportunities, and master plan.
Sierra, Lenox, remarked on consent agenda reports and future of Township.
Comment read for M. Landrum, Lenox Township, regarding data centers, progress, and pollution.
Comment on pressure, following the rules, and integrity.
Alice, remarked on farm history, soil carbon, and associated costs.
Larry, commented on property rights, following laws and guidelines, and participation respect.
Miranda, remarked on cybersecurity, overseas data access, and American development.
A. Pridemore, New Haven, commented on union participation, malfeasance, and corruption.
A. Welsh, Lenox Township property owner, remarked on violations, attorney hiring, and parking lot issues.
S. Fisher, New Haven, commented on raising children, insults, and trust.
P. Gonzer, Richmond Township, temporary job opportunities, property values, and data centers.
Valerie, Ray Township, remarked on rights, infringement, and data centers.
Comment on insurance, accounting, and budget.
7.    CONSENT AGENDA
All items listed under this Consent Agenda are considered routine by the Township Board and will be enacted by one motion. According to
established Township meeting rules, there will be no separate discussion of these items, unless a member of the Board or public so requests
at or prior to the meeting, in which event the chair of the meeting may remove such item(s) from the Consent Agenda for discussion and
consideration under Agenda Item No. 8, below. Approval of the Consent Agenda shall be by a majority roll call vote of those present and
voting. Under the Consent Agenda are items, a. Public Safety Report, b. EMS Report, c. DPW Report, d. Code Enforcement Report, e.
Assessing Department Report, f. Engineer Report, g. Planner Report, h. Library Report, i. Senior Center Report, j. Supervisor’s Report k.
Treasurer’s Report, l. Orders and Bills, m. Trustees Report, n. Clerk’s Report.

                                                                                                                                      2
Clerk Gurley reported that there are $882,663.91 in invoices to be considered for approval at this meeting.

Motion: Rosseel Support: Sutherland
Motion to approve the Consent Agenda and pay the bills in the amount of $882,663.91.
Roll Call Vote: Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Marino- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Sutherland- Aye. Motion passes.

8.        ITEMS REMOVED FROM CONSENT AGENDA
There were no items removed from the Consent Agenda at this meeting.

9. UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no Unfinished Business to complete at this meeting.

10. NEW BUSINESS
      a.    NORTHPOINTE STORAGE CONDITIONAL REZONING AGREEMENT EXTENSION REQUEST
Motion: Reeder
Motion to send the proposal back to the Planning Commission with the updated site plan for a Site Plan Review as the site plan has been
modified.
Motion died without support.

Motion: Rosseel Support: Marino
Motion to table Northpointe Storage Conditional Rezoning Agreement Extension until the next meeting, in order to confer with the current
planner as to the drawings.
Roll Call Vote: Rosseel- Aye, Marino- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Gurley- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

      b.    SECTION 719.58 I-94 DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (I-94 DD) FIRST READING

There was no motion to be made regarding this item at this meeting.
      c.    PLANNING COMMISSION REQUEST FOR INDEPENDENT SPECIALISTS
Motion: Rosseel Support: Sutherland

Motion to table the Planning Commission Request for Independent Specialists until the time that specialists are needed.
Roll Call Vote: Rosseel- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Gurley- Nay, Marino- Aye, Reeder- Nay. Motion passes.
     d. 26 MILE ROAD STATION LIFT PUMP REPAIR
Motion: Sutherland Support: Marino

Motion to approve the repair and rebuilding of the lift pump for the 26 Mile Road Station, at the cost of $14,975, through Kennedy Industries,
at the recommendation of the DPW Superintendent, Cam Trombly.
Roll Call Vote: Sutherland- Aye, Marino- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Reeder- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

     e.    JOHNSON CONTROLS ADDITIONAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT PROPOSAL
Motion: Sutherland     Support: Rosseel
Motion to approve the Additional Security Equipment Proposal through Johnson Controls, at the cost of $1,949.74, plus $109.11 annually.
Roll Call Vote: Sutherland- Aye, Rosseel- Aye, Gurley- Aye, Marino- Aye, Reeder- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

     f.    TOWNSHIP INSURANCE RENEWAL PROPOSAL
Motion: Rosseel    Support: Marino

Motion to approve the insurance premium through Nickel and Saph in the amount of $155,489, including $2,500 on deductible for general
liability and $2,500 deductible for the terrorism coverage.
Roll Call Vote: Rosseel- Aye, Marino- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Gurley- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.




                                                                                                                                        3
       g. HOPEFUL TRAILS CHARITABLE GAMING LICENSE REQUEST
 Motion: Gurley Support: Reeder
 Motion to approve the request for Resolution 2026-7 to Hopeful Trails for a Charitable Gaming License, as explained by President Nicholas
 Powers.
 Roll Call Vote: Gurley- Aye, Reeder- Aye, Sutherland- Aye, Marino- Aye, Rosseel- Aye. All Ayes. Motion passes.

 11.     PUBLIC COMMENT
 T. Milton, 28341 28 Mile Road, remarked on trash pickup modification.
 A. Welsh commented on resolution, law, and complaints.
 M. Drzewiecki, remarked on heating/cooling, Planning Commission, and bookkeeping.
 T. Samander, spoke on rules, jobs, and events.
 L. Hardon, New Haven, commented on battery energy storage systems.
 M. Kubik, remarked on data center, forefathers, and unions.
 Comment on petition and resignation.
 B. Meissen, spoke on paid actors and involvement.
 Jessica, Lenox Township, remarked on union representation, respect, and doing the right thing.
 K. Riemer, commented on 26 Mile Road pump repair crew parking.
 S. Dodich, remarked on expenditures.
 S. Garcia, spoke on reports, charitable organization, and dialogue.
 J. Hampton, Lenox Township, commented on technical aspects, and ordinance.
 D. VanDeKerkhove, remarked on good intention, and understanding.
 13.    CALL FROM THE BOARD
 There were no remarks from the Board of Trustees at this meeting.
 14. ADJOURNMENT
 Motion: Sutherland Support: Rosseel
 Motion to adjourn the Meeting at 9:56 PM. All Ayes. Motion passes.




Respectfully submitted,                                        Respectfully submitted.




Michelle Gurley, Clerk                                         Carol Swantek, Recording Secretary




                                                                                                                                    4
