                          CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF COMSTOCK

                                        ORDINANCE: 552

                                  ADOPTED: March 17, 2025

        EFFECTIVE: EIGHT DAYS AFTER PUBLICATION AFTER ADOPTION

        An Ordinance to protect the public health, safety, and welfare by establishing regulations
relating to a temporary moratorium on considering applications for large renewable energy
projects/facilities while the Township completes a study of the zoning regulations pertaining thereto
and possible subsequent revisions to the current Zoning Ordinance; to provide for severability; to
repeal all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict therewith; and to provide an effective date.

                          CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF COMSTOCK
                           KALAMAZOO COUNTY, MICHIGAN

                                            ORDAINS:

                                           SECTION I
                                           FINDINGS

       In accordance with Public Act 359 of 1947, MCL 42.1 et seq., as amended and the Michigan
Zoning Enabling Act, PA 110 of 2006, as amended, Comstock Charter Township has determined the
following:

       1. The Township Board of Comstock Charter Township determines that the approval of
          large scale renewable energy facilities, including battery energy storage facilities 50
          MW or larger, solar energy facilities 50 MW or larger, wind energy facilities 100 MW
          or larger and/or hybrid projects of 50 MW or larger in size (hereinafter large scale
          renewable energy facilities or projects) may result in or produce negative impacts on
          permitted land uses and development and may harm the public health, safety and general
          welfare of property owners and residents of Comstock Charter Township.

       2. Recently, and as a result of PA 233 of 2023, the Township Board has received substantial
          comments and information from the public raising public health, safety, and welfare
          concerns about the impacts large scale renewable energy facilities on the residents and
          property owners of the Township

       3. Additionally, in light of a recent litigation initiated against the Michigan Public Service
          Commission regarding the MPSC’s proposed implementation of PA 233 of 2023, the
          Township Board determines it is appropriate to consider the Township’s authorities and
          abilities to regulate large scale renewable energy projects/facilities in more detail.
                                                 1
       4. The Township Board finds that adopting a temporary moratorium is reasonable and
          necessary for, among other reasons, the following:
          A. Michigan courts have recognized that a moratorium is a common and legitimate tool
             to preserve the status quo while formulating a development strategy.
          B. The adoption of a temporary moratorium would allow the study of study of the public
             health, safety, and welfare concerns regarding large scale renewable energy
             projects/facilities and allow for any needed Zoning Ordinance amendments and
             implementation process to occur.
          C. The adoption of a temporary moratorium will allow the Planning Commission and
             Township Board to consider citizen input and involvement, public debate, and full
             consideration of all issues and points of view.

   5. The Township Board accordingly determines that it is desirable and in the public interest
      for the reasons set forth above that the Board adopt a temporary moratorium .

   6. Because of the recent effective date of PA 233 of 2023 and the resultant possible siting of
      large scale renewable energy projects/facilities in the Township without the Township’s
      review or consent, the Township Board declares this Ordinance to be of extreme importance
      and declares the ordinance to be an emergency ordinance per MCL 42.20.


                                 SECTION II
                    ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENT
                ARTICLE 7 – AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE A TEMPORARY
                MORATORIUM OF ZONING ORDINANCE PROVISIONS

      Article 7, Administration and Enforcement, is hereby amended by adding a new Section 7.16
Temporary Moratorium, which section shall read as follows:

   1. The Township Planning Commission has the authority to recommend the establishment of a
      temporary moratorium as to the application of provisions of the Township Zoning Ordinance
      to the Township Board, by majority vote of the Planning Commission.

   2. The Township Board may impose a temporary moratorium as to the application of the
      provisions of the Township Zoning Ordinance by resolution or ordinance of the Township
      Board.

   3. Such temporary moratorium may be extended by approval of the Township Board to allow
      additional time for Township review and consideration of the application, revision, review
      or repeal/replacement of zoning ordinance provisions.

                                        SECTION III
                                       MORATORIUM

       A temporary moratorium is imposed upon the acceptance and/or processing of any
                                                2
applications for large scale renewable energy projects and/or facilities, including wind energy
project 100 MW or larger, battery energy storage project 50 MW or larger, solar energy project 50
MW or large and/or any hybrid project whose combined megawatts of any energy type exceeds 50
MW and will remain in effect until December 31, 2025 or until amendments to the Zoning Ordinance
become effective, whichever occurs first.


                                      SECTION IV
                                 TERM OF MORATORIUM

        The moratorium imposed by this Ordinance will remain in effect until December 31, 2025
or until amendments to the Zoning Ordinance become effective, whichever occurs first. Before this
moratorium expires, the Township Board may extend the moratorium by resolution as appropriate
to allow sufficient time to complete amendments to its ordinances. If an extension is adopted, the
Township will publish notice of the extension on the Township website.


                                 SECTION V
                     AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE 4, SECTION 4.61
                    BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS (BESS)

       Article 4, Section 4.61, Battery Energy Storage Systems, is amended as follows

       The provisions of Section 4.61 (former Section 300.2129) Battery Energy Storage Systems
(BESS), allowing for Battery Energy Storage Systems, are temporarily suspended upon the
enactment of this Moratorium Ordinance until December 31, 2025, or until otherwise amended or
repealed.

                             SECTION VI
           AMENDMENT TO ARTCLE 3, (M) MANUFACTURING DISTRICT

      Article 3 Zoning Districts, M Manufacturing District, Section 3.1.P (3) Special Land Uses is
amended as follows:

   The provisions of Section 3.1.P(3) Special Land Uses in the M zoning district allowing for
   Battery Energy Storage Systems as a special land use are temporarily suspended upon the
   enactment of this Moratorium Ordinance until December 31, 2025, or until otherwise
   amended or repealed.


                            SECTION VII
   AMENDMENT TO ARTCLE 3, (AGR) AGRICULTURE-RESIDNETIAL DISTRICT

      Article 3 Zoning Districts, AGR Agriculture-Residential District, Section 3.1.A (3) Special
Land Uses is amended as follows:


                                                3
   The provisions of Section 3.1.A(3) Special Land Uses in the AGR zoning district allowing
   for Battery Energy Storage Systems as a special land use are temporarily suspended upon
   the enactment of this Moratorium Ordinance until December 31, 2025, or until otherwise
   amended or repealed.

                                          SECTION VIII
                                         SEVERABILITY

        The provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to be severable. If any clause,
sentence, word, section or provision is hereafter declared void or unenforceable for any reason by a
court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not affect the remainder of such ordinance which shall
continue in full force and effect.

                                      SECTION IX
                                 EFFECTIVE DATE/REPEAL

       This Ordinance shall take effect eight days after publication. All ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict with this Ordinance are hereby repealed. Ordinance 543, Battery Energy
Storage Systems is specifically found not to be in conflict with this Ordinance and is not repealed,
replaced or revised by the adoption of this Ordinance, but instead, is subject to the temporary
moratorium contained herein.


                                     Nicole Beauchamp, Clerk
                                      clerk@comstockmi.gov
                               COMSTOCK CHARTER TOWNSHIP
                              5858 King Highway Kalamazoo MI 49048
                                           269-381-2360
                                       www.comstockmi.gov




                                                  4
