Minutes of
TOWNSHIP BOARD
REGULAR MEETING
July 09, 2026                                                         Sean R. Miller, Clerk




Call to Order: Clerk Miller called the July 9, 2026, Regular Meeting of the Springfield Township
Board to order at 7:00 pm at the Springfield Township Civic Center.

Pledge of Allegiance

Roll Call:
        Board Members Present
        Sean Miller                     Township Clerk
        Jamie Dubre                     Township Treasurer
        Lori Beatty                     Township Trustee
        Chris Moore                     Township Trustee

        Board Members Absent
        Richard Davis                   Township Supervisor
        Bill Whitley                    Township Trustee
        Kevin Sclesky                   Township Trustee

        Others Present
        Greg Need                       Township Attorney

With the absence of both the Supervisor and the Chairman Pro-Tem, Clerk Miller moved to
Nominate Trustee Moore to be appointed Chair Pro Tem for this meeting. Supported by Trustee
Beatty. Vote on the motion. Yes: Miller, Dubre, Beatty, Moore; No: None; Absent: Sclesky, Davis,
Whitley. Motion carried by a 4 to 0 vote.

Agenda Additions & Changes:
Clerk Miller noted that with Superintendent Piper in the hospital, he will not be providing them
with an update, so it needs to be removed from the Agenda.

Consent Agenda:

        Clerk Miller moved to approve the Consent Agenda as presented. Supported by Treasurer
        Dubre. Vote on the motion. Yes: Dubre, Beatty, Miller, Moore; No: None; Absent: Davis,
        Sclesky, Whitley. Motion carried by a 4 to 0 vote.

                a)       Approve Minutes: Regular Meeting of June 11, 2026; Special Meeting of
                         June 15, 2026.
                b)       Accept the June 2026 Treasurer’s Report




                                                1
Minutes of
TOWNSHIP BOARD
REGULAR MEETING
July 09, 2026                                                         Sean R. Miller, Clerk




                c)      Receive June 2026 Monthly Reports: Building, Electrical, Plumbing,
                        Mechanical, Ordinance, Fire, Police, Comp Time and IT
                d)      Authorize Payment of Bills: June Additional Disbursements totaling
                        $179,295.44 and July 2026 Bills List totaling $446,924.23
                e)      Approve 2026-2027 Monthly Healthcare reimbursement maximums as
                        follows: Single coverage at $5.85 for Vision, $28.01 for Dental, and $370.32
                        for Medical/RX; 2-person coverage at $11.70 for Vision, $60.79 for Dental,
                        and $1,486.17 for Medical/RX
                f)      Authorize the Deputy Treasurer to accept and sign the (FY) 2026 Scrap Tire
                        Clean-up Grant on behalf of Springfield Township in the amount of
                        $3,000.00
                g)      Authorize the Township Superintendent to execute the IT Services
                        Agreement with Oakland County and Appoint the IT Administrator as the
                        primary point of contact and Clerk as the secondary point of contact
                h)      Approve Mini Contract with OCSO for Liberty & Legacy Celebration event
                        on September 26, 2026
                i)      Approve Clarkston Area Youth Assistance Contribution in the amount of
                        $3,500.00
                j)      Communications:
                      a. Michigan Senate Bill 240: Changes to Commencement of Terms for
                          Elected Officials
                      b. Long Lake Restoration Project-June Update
                      c. Clarkston Area Youth Assistance Annual Report

PRESENTATION:

   1. Clarkston Area Youth Assistance

Jan Scislowicz led this discussion, with Lauren Klos also attending, stating they are a prevention
program that has a new program called Music Mashup. This is for kids that are second through
fifth grade. They are chosen by their teachers as kids that would benefit most from after school
structured programs. They are taught how to play percussion instruments, as well as learn about
the instruments geographically and historically. Their intention is to give them experience with
teamwork and confidence in playing the instruments. Parents have stated they see more
confidence in their children. They started with Pine Knob Elementary, then added North
Sashabaw. They plan on adding more schools once they have more volunteers. They currently
have four volunteers for this program. Next annual meeting will be this fall. 72 students were
honored at the Youth Recognition Ceremony. Many children were awarded scholarships at the
Camp & Skill Building Scholarships event.

Lauren Klos stated she is the caseworker for CAYA and she appreciates Springfield Township’s
sponsorship and support. She mentioned they had 67 new referrals since last July and noted they
have new assessment tools.



                                                 2
Minutes of
TOWNSHIP BOARD
REGULAR MEETING
July 09, 2026                                                          Sean R. Miller, Clerk




   2. Springfield Township Library Presentation

Kristina Costigan, Director of the Springfield Township Library led the discussion, recognizing
Kristy Bower and Ruth Gruber for over 50 years (each) of service to the library. They were
instrumental in bringing a vision to life. Dedicating countless hours, volunteering, fundraising and
working to build community support. Engraved bricks will be installed to honor their service.

   3. Fire Department Updates

Fire Chief Matt Covey provided a Fire Department update for July 2026. Assistant Chief Matt
Strickland also attended. They worked diligently with the Hartland Fire Department to write a
FEMA grant, hoping to replace the air pack system. The grant is just under $1,000,000, which
would be split between three communities. New EMT’s were hired. He explained that the fire
millage on the August 4 ballot is not a new millage but a combination of two existing millages.

   4. Superintendent Updates


OLD BUSINESS

    1. Extend Data Center Moratorium

Clerk Miller mentioned the moratorium that was adopted in December 2025, which gave the
Planning Commission, consultants and legal counsel time to develop zoning regulations,
specifically addressing data centers. Township staff, planners, engineer, and attorney are all
continuing to work on that ordinance. A revised draft should be reviewed by the Planning
Commission later this month with a public hearing possibly occurring in August. Assuming this
timeline, the Township Board would hold the first reading in September with second reading and
possible adoption in October. Resolution 2026-09 amends the original resolution and extends the
current moratorium through December 10, 2026.

Clerk Miller moved to adopt Resolution 2026-09, amending Resolution 2025-11, and extending
the temporary data center moratorium until December 10, 2026. Supported by Treasurer
Dubre. Vote on the motion. Yes: Beatty, Moore, Dubre, Miller; No: none; Absent: Sclesky, Davis,
Whitley. Motion carried by a 4 to 0 vote.




                                                 3
Minutes of
TOWNSHIP BOARD
REGULAR MEETING
July 09, 2026                                                          Sean R. Miller, Clerk




NEW BUSINESS:
       1. Clarkston Woods/Scenic Valley Special Assessment District

Treasurer Dubre noted this has been discussed at prior board meetings. Mr. Kanous was also a
part of the discussion. With many changes throughout the years, there is potential for significant
issues, so this special assessment is needed.

Mr. David Kanous stated that when it rains hard, there is not much there to hold the road in
place, and it is past its useful life. 24:00

Treasurer Dubre stated the resolution is for an estimate of $351,525 for road repairs for this
Special Assessment District (SAD). The SAD must first be established to move forward with a
hearing of practicability at the Augst 13, 2026 meeting. It needs to be established by September
30, 2026 to get it on the winter tax bill this year. An escrow account was set up in December 2002
for the Clarkston Woods Development, with approximately $6,042 in that account. She is
requesting authorization for those funds to be used for paving since it belongs to the
development. Ms. Dubre discussed the administration fee and recommended it be waived.

Trustee Beatty questioned if there is an escrow agreement that needs to be released?

Mr. Need’s response was no, since the $6,000 is being used for the project.

Trustee Beatty asked if once the SAD is established and it becomes a regular part of the tax bill for
each parcel ID, that just runs with the land regardless of sale?

Treasurer Dubre stated that was correct.

Trustee Moore stated he does not have an issue with waving the administration fee.

Mr. Kanous said they are grateful for the help.

Treasurer Dubre commented that they are making estimates on road paving that will not happen
for several years. The Board can do a reassessment to make up the difference.

Trustee Beatty questioned what would happen if they have another sinkhole within the four
years?

Mr. Kanous responded that he thinks they would do what they did the last time, which was an
immediate assessment in the repairs.

Treasurer Dubre explained they can use the funds for the road..

Treasurer Dubre moved to utilize the escrow funds in the Clarkston Woods, LLC. Escrow 701-
000-255.059 in the approximate amount of $6,042; that amount be made available to be
utilized for the Scenic Valley Road Paving; and to confirm that the Board's intention is to charge
no administration fee for the Special Assessment District upon creation and passage of the



                                                  4
Minutes of
TOWNSHIP BOARD
REGULAR MEETING
July 09, 2026                                                               Sean R. Miller, Clerk




special assessment role. Supported by Clerk Miller. Yes: Beatty, Moore, Dubre, Miller; No: none;
Absent: Davis, Whitley, Sclesky. Motion carried by a 4 to 0 vote.

Treasurer Dubre moved to adopt Resolution 2026-10tentatively declaring its intention to
establish a Special Assessment District to be known as Scenic Valley Special Assessment District,
with the Board holding the next hearing for that district at the August 13, 2026 meeting.
Supported by Clerk Miller. Yes: Moore, Dubre, Miller, Beatty; No: none; Absent: Sclesky, Davis,
Whitley. Motion carried by a 4 to 0 vote.

       2. Springfield Township Fire Department Professional Development and Succession
          Program

A PowerPoint Presentation was delivered by Chief Covey to request the adoption of the
Springfield Township Fire Department Professional Development and Succession Program. Dana
DeGrazia from EctoHR and command staff are involved. The ultimate idea about the succession
plan is to create a pathway for anyone to make it to the next step and what’s required to do that.
The department wants to maintain a level of service for the residents with expectations of what
each rank should have certifications in. They have a great department and strive to continue it
moving forward. They have a performance review and professional development form, with a
detailed multi-page evaluation where the employee rates themselves, then they are rated by
management. That’s going to happen every six months to start and yearly after that.

Treasurer Dubre stated it is fabulous.

Clerk Miller stated it is clear a lot of time and effort has been put into this.

Chief Covey thanked Supervisor Davis and Dana DeGrazia from EctoHR and the command staff for
doing an amazing job.

Trustee Beatty believes it will help with the retention of staff as well.

Treasurer Dubre moved to adopt the Springfield Township Fire Department Professional
Development and Succession Program consisting of the Springfield Township Fire Department
Succession Plan, the Springfield Township Fire Department Performance Review, and the
Professional Development Plan for all department ranks, and the Springfield Township Fire
Department Promotional Project Process as outlined in Fire Chief Covey's July 1 memo to take
effect on July 10, 2026. Supported by Trustee Beatty. Yes: Miller, Beatty, Moore, Dubre; No:
none; Absent: Davis, Sclesky, Whitley. Motion carried by a 4 to 0 vote.

       3. Township Attorney Retirement

Clerk Miller stated that the Township Board recognized an extraordinary and bittersweet
milestone in the history of Springfield Township, and honored the Township Attorney, Greg Need,
for his remarkable 40 years of service to the community. Through changing administrations,
evolving laws, and complex legal matters, he has been a constant source of thoughtful advice,
sound judgment, and unwavering professionalism. Throughout his tenure, Greg has approached



                                                    5
Minutes of
TOWNSHIP BOARD
REGULAR MEETING
July 09, 2026                                                          Sean R. Miller, Clerk




the responsibility with exceptional skill, integrity, and dedication. Clerk Miller added that on
behalf of the Springfield Township Board, the employees, and the residents of Springfield
Township, they extend their sincere gratitude for his 40 years of counsel, guidance, and
dedication. His contributions have helped strengthen this Township, and his legacy will continue
to be reflected in the work of those who follow.

Mr. Need thanked Clerk Miller for the kind words and stated it has been a great 40 years. He is
proud to have played a small part in making the community what it is. It was also the efforts of a
lot of great people that have served on the Township Board, past and present. Mr. Need stated
that when he started with the township, Collin Walls had been township supervisor for about
two years. Mr. Need wanted to put on the record that he worked with a lot of wonderful,
dedicated, and awesome public servants, but Collin Walls was the best. His integrity, his
intelligence, his perseverance, his common people skills were second to none. He again thanked
everyone very much, he appreciated it and wished Springfield all the best in the future.

PUBLIC COMMENT:

A member of the public stated that she recently received a flyer in the mail for the Township Liberty
and Legacy Celebration, which commemorates the country's birthday. As this is a community event,
she was hopeful that the Township would engage community groups such as STEP, the garden club,
Scouts, etc, in making this event truly memorable. This will not only contribute to the event's
success, but to also foster a sense of trust and camaraderie among community members. She
eagerly anticipated collaborating with the Township, but asked them to please inform them of any
of the ways that can be contributed to this event. Second, regarding trust. The community is
concerned about the township's actions in preserving and protecting the quality of the air, land,
and water resources in relation to the proposed mining operation. She is also concerned about the
township's efforts to preserve the rural character and peacefulness of the community. They deserve
to know the township's plans and actions to ensure community safety. All of these concerns are
crucial in building a strong and trusting relationship. Please provide the community with an update
on the progress made thus far and any plans for the future.. The people have elected the Board to
these positions and respectfully request transparency in future endeavors. She also congratulated
Mr. Need.

Angie Peltier stated she lives in Davisburg and her concern is regarding the mine. She is a geologist
by trade and does work for an environmental company. Reading the market study was very
insulting to everyone's intelligence in this area. There's no way that haul roads are not going to
impact the communities. The control groups that they used in these assessments were completely
absurd. Using the Oxford mine, which is surrounded by commercial and industrial areas, and then
using the Milford mine, which was in a woodland, is inconsistent with the area that we live in, and
she stated that the Board should not accept that as a market study. She’s done a lot of market
studies from other companies, and there are so many deficiencies in this report, and she advised
them not to accept it. She recommended the Board hire someone on their own. She thanked them.




                                                 6
Minutes of
TOWNSHIP BOARD
REGULAR MEETING
July 09, 2026                                                             Sean R. Miller, Clerk




Nancy Strole stated that wanted to follow up on the tribute to Greg Need. She seconded everything
that was said. But beyond that, all his assistance and contributions as an attorney. She added that
Greg has played a big part in the fabric of this community. Beyond all his professional contributions
as he alluded to very briefly, for many years, Greg was a resident of Springfield Township and his
heart still is a resident. He still serves the community, not simply as an attorney in all his knowledge.
More than half the population of Springfield Township is in the Clarkston School District. For many
years Greg served on the School Board as an elected member of the Clarkston School District. His
kids are grown now, but he has contributed so much to the residents of this community. But the
enjoyment that they have in the community, and what they love about the community through his
involvement and his support. And the beauty of the community and helping them enhance it in the
schools, unknowingly they owe a debt of gratitude to Greg. She thanked the Board.

Adjournment: Hearing no other business, Chair Pro Tem Moore adjourned the meeting at 8:01
pm.


_______________________________
Sean R. Miller, MiPMC
Clerk




                                                   7
