                       CITY OF PEEKSKILL COMMON COUNCIL
                              PEEKSKILL, NEW YORK

                                     AGENDA BILL


SUBJECT:                              FOR AGENDA OF: 4/14/2025
                                                                       AGENDA     # LL-3
RESOLUTION APPROVING LOCAL            DEPT. OF ORIGIN:     LEGAL
LAW NO.3 OF 2025 IMPLEMENTING         DATE SUBMITTED:      4/9/2025
A MORATORIUM ON BATTERY               DEPT. HEAD:          ERIC L. GORDON
ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS OVER           STAFF:
80 KWH.                               EXHIBITS:



APPROVED BY CORPORATION COUNSEL                            ELG
APPROVED BY COMPTROLLER

APPROVED BY CITY MANAGER FOR SUBMISSION



EXPENDITURE     $0          AMOUNT          $0           APPROPRIATION      $0
REQUIRED:       N/A         BUDGETED:       N/A          REQUIRED:          N/A




                                SUMMARY STATEMENT

THIS RESOLUTION APPROVES LOCAL LAW NO.3 OF 2025, IMPLEMENTING A MORATORIUM ON
BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM OVER 80 KWH FOR A SIX-MONTH PERIOD.



                                RECOMMENDED ACTION

ADOPT THE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE LOCAL LAW NO.3 OF 2025 IMPLEMENTING A MORATORIUM
ON BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM OVER 80 KWH FOR A SIX-MONTH PERIOD.



MOVED BY:                                      SECONDED BY:



                                     ROLL CALL VOTE
MAYOR MCKENZIE                                      COUNCILMAN DOUGLAS
DEPUTY MAYOR RILEY                                  COUNCILMAN SCOTT
COUNCILWOMAN TALBOT                                 COUNCILMAN FASSETT
COUNCILMAN FERNANDEZ



  FUNDING SOURCE            AMOUNT          GENERAL           CITY MATCH    CITY MATCH
  (FEDERAL, STATE,                           LEDGER             AMOUNT        GENERAL
      BUDGET)                               ACCOUNT                            LEDGER
                                                                              ACCOUNT
FEDERAL               N/A                N/A                  N/A          N/A
STATE                 N/A                N/A                  N/A          N/A
                  RESOLUTION OF THE COMMON COUNCIL
                    APPROVING LOCAL LAW NO. 3 OF 2025
             IMPLEMENTING A MORATORIUM ON BATTERY ENERGY
           STORAGE SYSTEM OVER 80 KWH FOR A SIX-MONTH PERIOD

       WHEREAS, the City of Peekskill recognizes that Battery Energy Storage Systems

(“BESS”) within the City of Peekskill (the “City”) are a key component to the viability and

promotion of renewable energy sources; and

       WHEREAS, since the technology of the BESS is still in its infancy, there is a significant

amount of public concern regarding the potentially volatile nature of lithium-ion batteries, which

stems from fires at three different BESS facilities in the State of New York since May 2023; and

       WHEREAS, the City of Peekskill Common Council, the City Planning Commission, the

City Zoning Board of Appeals and the City Building Department require additional information

and assurances about the safety of BESS facilities, including but not limited to best practices for

fire suppression and emergency response, ensuring the technology and availability of equipment

necessary for local fire departments should a fire occur, precautions to take related to gas emissions

and deterring any necessary fire suppression chemicals from impacting groundwater, and the

adequacy of location and other standards for siting of BESS in the City; and

       WHEREAS, the City intends to study the safety and security of these energy storage

systems, including thermal runaway, off gassing and toxicity, stranded energy, ways to prevent

fires, prevent by-product contamination, and ensure emergency responders have the necessary

training and information to prepare and deploy resources in the event of a fire; and

       WHEREAS, the City is concerned about locating BESS in proximity to residential

properties and in other areas where fires in such facilities could result in substantial harm to

residents and damage to properties in the City. The City is also concerned about other adverse

environmental impacts BESS may have with respect to locating BESS on or in proximity to

environmentally sensitive properties and with respect to adjacent properties; and

       WHEREAS, the Common Council has determined that a local law adopting a six (6)

month moratorium prohibiting the review and approval of applications and issuance permits for

large-scale BESS in the City is required to address concerns about the safety and location of BESS

systems and to gather information on these issues is required to implement appropriate regulations

and address any outstanding concerns; and

       WHEREAS, the local law enacting a six (6) month limited moratorium on large-scale

BESS will not apply to small-scale BESS which have an aggregate energy capacity less than
80kWh, which are scaled for residential use and given their limited energy capacity do not pose

the same associated risks to the community and residents of the City as large-scale BESS; and

       WHEREAS, the proposed Local Law was referred to the Westchester County Planning

Board which did not have any objections to the approval of the Local Law; and

       WHEREAS, a public hearing was held on March 24, 2025, at which time all members of

the public had an opportunity to comment on the proposed moratorium; and

       WHEREAS, the adoption of a moratorium is a Type II action under the New York State

Environmental Quality Review Act, 6 CRRNY § 617.5(36) because it is the adoption of a

moratorium on land development or construction.


       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT

       RESOLVED, that the Common Council of the City of Peekskill approves Local Law No.

3 of 2025 in the form set forth below, implementing a moratorium on battery energy storage

systems over 80 KWH; and be it further

       RESOLVED, that the City Clerk is authorized to file Local Law No. 3 of 2025 with the

Secretary of State and take any other action necessary to effectuate the purpose and intent of this

Resolution.
                                   CITY OF PEEKSKILL
                          CITY OF PEEKSKILL COMMON COUNCIL

 A LOCAL LAW ESTABLISHING A SIX (6) MONTH MORATORIUM PROHIBITING
            THE REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS
            AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS FOR LARGE-SCALE
               “BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS”
                     IN THE CITY OF PEEKSKILL

                                   LOCAL LAW NO. 3 OF 2025



                                                                       A     LOCAL        LAW    to
                                                                       Implement a Moratorium on
                                                                       Battery    Energy    Storage
                                                                       Systems Over 80 kwh in the
                                                                       City of Peekskill.



BE IT ENACTED by the Common Council of the City of Peekskill, Westchester County, State
of New York as follows:

Section 1: Purpose

The purpose of this local law is to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the City of Peekskill (the “City”) and to maintain the status quo by temporarily suspending the
processing of land use approvals as provided herein and to further suspend the rights of landowners
and their designees to obtain development approvals as identified below for a period of six months
from the date of the adoption of this local law while the City studies, analyzes and determines
potential appropriate revisions and amendments to the City Code regarding the propriety of Battery
Energy Storage Systems (as defined below).

Section 2: Definitions.

BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM:
One or more devices, assembled together, capable of storing energy in order to supply electrical
energy at a future time, not to include a stand-alone 12-volt car battery or an electric motor vehicle.

SMALL-SCALE BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM:
Battery energy storage systems (as defined above), which have an aggregate energy capacity less
than 80kWh.

LARGE-SCALE BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM:
Battery energy storage systems (as defined above), which have an aggregate energy capacity
greater than 80kWh.


Section 3: Legislative findings.

This ordinance is adopted to impose a six (6) month moratorium on the issuance of permits and/or
approvals for large-scale Battery Energy Storage Systems (“BESS”). While the City recognizes
that BESS are a key component to the viability and promotion of renewable energy sources, since
the technology of these systems is still in its infancy, there is a significant amount of public concern
regarding the potentially volatile nature of lithium-ion batteries, which stems from fires at three
different BESS facilities in the State of New York since May 2023.
In response to these BESS fires, New York State Governor Kathy Hochul found it necessary to
form an Inter-Agency Fire Safety Working Group tasked with ensuring the safety of BESS across
New York. On February 6, 2024, Governor Hochul released initial recommendations from the
Inter-Agency Fire Safety Working Group, outlining enhanced safety standards for battery energy
storage systems. The draft recommendations include potential updates to the Fire Code of New
York State as well as a list of additional opportunities for defining and implementing best practices.
If adopted, the changes will codify enhanced safety standards and continue to position New York
as a national leader in responsible and reliable battery energy storage development.

As a result, the Common Council of the City, the City Planning Commission, the City Zoning
Board of Appeals and the City of Building Department require additional information and
assurances about the safety of BESS facilities, including but not limited to best practices for fire
suppression and emergency response, ensuring the technology and availability of equipment
necessary for local fire departments should a fire occur, precautions to take related to gas emissions
and deterring any necessary fire suppression chemicals from impacting groundwater, and the
adequacy of location and other standards for siting of BESS. The City intends to study the safety
and security of these energy storage systems, including thermal runaway, off gassing and toxicity,
stranded energy, ways to prevent fires, prevent by-product contamination, and ensure emergency
responders have the necessary training and information to prepare and deploy resources in the
event of a fire.

In addition, the City is concerned about locating BESS in proximity to residential properties and
in other areas where fires in such facilities could result in substantial harm to residents and damage
to properties in the City. The City is also concerned about other adverse environmental impacts
BESS may have with respect to locating BESS on or in proximity to environmentally sensitive
properties and with respect to adjacent properties.

This local law enacting a six (6) month limited moratorium on large-scale BESS will not apply to
small-scale BESS which have an aggregate energy capacity less than 80kWh. This is due to the
fact that such small-scale BESS are scaled for residential use, are primarily installed directly on a
homeowner’s property, and given their limited energy capacity do not pose the same associated
risks to the community and residents of the City as large-scale BESS.

In short, the City has concerns about the potential effects that large-scale BESS may have on the
health, safety, welfare, character and quality of life of the residents and citizens of the City and
requires time to adequately study the potential impacts from large-scale BESS and adopt
ordinances addressing these concerns as determined to be appropriate. Given these concerns and
the current lack of relevant data and information on these issues, it is proposed that the Common
Council of the City enact a six (6) month limited moratorium prohibiting the review and approval
of applications and issuance permits for large-scale BESS in the City while these issues are further
considered and the City Code is adequately revised to address any outstanding concerns.

Section 4: Moratorium.

Pursuant to the statutory authority vested in the City to regulate and control land use and to protect
the health, safety and welfare of its residents, the Common Council of the City hereby declares a
six (6) month moratorium on the review and approval of new as of yet unfiled and any and all
pending applications for any and all land use approvals, including site plan approvals, subdivision
plats, building permits, special use permits and variances (hereinafter “Land Use Approvals”) for
all large-scale Battery Energy Storage Systems within the City. During the period of this local law:

       1. The Planning Commission shall not accept any application, grant any approval to, or
          continue the review of a subdivision plat, site plan, special use permit or other permit
          that includes the permitting, construction and/or development of a Large-Scale Battery
          Energy Storage System within the City.
       2. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not accept any application or grant any approval
          for a variance or other permit that would have as a result the permitting, construction
          and development of a Large-Scale Battery Energy Storage System within the City.
       3. The Building Department shall not accept any building permit application or grant any
          Certificate of Occupancy or Certificate of Compliance for a Large-Scale Battery
          Energy Storage System within the City.
       4. Projects currently under construction and projects that have received final approvals
          are not subject to this moratorium.

Section 5: Term.

The moratorium imposed by this Local Law shall be in effect for a period of six (6) months from
the effective date of this Local Law.

Section 6: Hardship waiver.

A. Should any owner of property in the City of Peekskill affected by this Local Law suffer any
   unnecessary and extraordinary hardship due to the enactment and application of this Local
   Law, then the owner of said property may apply to the Common Council of the City of
   Peekskill in writing for a variance from strict compliance with this Local Law upon submission
   of proof of such unnecessary hardship. For the purposes of this Local Law, unnecessary or
   extraordinary hardship shall not be considered:

       1. The mere concern that regulations may be changed or adopted, or that the City Code
          may be amended; or
       2. The mere delay in being permitted to make an application or waiting for a decision on
          the application for a variance, special permit, site plan, subdivision, or other permit
          during the period of the moratorium imposed by this Local Law.

B. An application for an exception based upon unnecessary or extraordinary hardship shall be
   filed with the City Clerk no earlier than the effective date of this Local Law, including a fee of
   Five Hundred and 00/100 ($500.00) Dollars for each tax map parcel claimed to be subject to
   unnecessary or extraordinary hardship, by the landowner or the applicant upon the consent of
   the landowner.

C. The application shall provide a recitation of the specific facts that are alleged to support the
   claim of unnecessary or extraordinary hardship and shall contain such other information and/or
   documentation as the Common Council shall prescribe, as necessary for the Common Council
   to be fully informed with respect to the application.

D. Upon submission of a written application to the City Clerk by the property owner seeking a
   hardship waiver from the provisions of this Local Law, the Common Council shall, within
   forty-five (45) days of receipt of a completed application, schedule a public hearing on said
   application upon five (5) days’ written notice in the official newspaper of the City. At said
   Public Hearing, the property owner and any other parties wishing to present evidence with
   regard to the application shall have an opportunity to be heard, and the Common Council shall,
   within thirty (30) days of the close of said public hearing, render its decision either granting,
   denying, granting in part or denying in part, the application for a hardship waiver from the
   strict requirements of this Local Law. If the Common Council determines that a property owner
   will suffer an unnecessary or extraordinary hardship if this Local Law is strictly applied to a
   particular property, then the Common Council shall vary the application to this Local Law to
   the minimum extent necessary to provide the property owner relief from strict compliance with
   this Local Law.

E. Standard of Review. In reviewing an application for an exception based upon a claim of
   necessary or extraordinary hardship, the Common Council shall consider the following criteria:

       1. Whether the moratorium will expose a property owner or applicant to substantial
          monetary liability to a third person or would leave the property owner or applicable
          completely unable, after a thorough review of alternative solutions, to have a
          reasonable alternative use of the property.
       2. The extent to which the proposed development activity would cause significant
          environmental harm, adversely impact surrounding natural resource areas, public
          health, comfort or safety concerns and/or have a negative impact upon the City.
       3. The emergency response plan including evacuation orders to be followed in the event
          of a fire or any other emergency at the facility and satisfactory evidence that precautions
          are in place to suppress a fire and mitigate the extent of damage to the surroundings
          and environment;
       4. The size of the subject parcel and the wattage of the Battery Energy Storage System
          facility;
       5. The proximity of the applicant’s proposed Battery Energy Storage System facility to
          residential areas as well as sensitive and high-risk populations including but not limited
          to hospitals, nursing homes, assisted living facilities and schools;
       6. The extent of the proposed development and/or disturbance of the applicant’s premises;
       7. The environmental significance, if any, of the applicant’s parcel and the proposed
          development’s impact upon the environment, including existing transportation
          resources;
       8. Compatibility of the proposed development with the aesthetic resources of the
          community or with the existing community or neighborhood character; and
       9. Compatibility of the proposed development with the recommendations of the Master
          Plan, the Comprehensive Plan Update, and all adopted Comprehensive Plans and plan
          elements henceforth.

Section 7: Home rule.

Nothing in this Local Law is intended or shall be construed to limit the home rule authority of the
City under State Law or to limit the City’s discretion in setting fees and charges in connection with
any applications requiring City approval.

Section 8: Authority.

This moratorium is adopted pursuant to Article IX of the New York State Constitution, the General
City Law, General Municipal Law, and Municipal Home Rule Law of the State of New York. In
particular, this chapter shall supersede any provisions of the City Code and New York State Law
which require the Common Council, Planning Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals or Building
Department to accept, process, and/or approve applications or issue permits for the development
of Large-Scale Battery Energy Storage Systems within specified statutory time periods.

Section 9: Severability.

If any part or provision of this Local Law or the application thereof to any person or circumstance
be adjudged invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its
operation to the part or provision or application directly involved in the controversy in which
judgment shall have been rendered and shall not affect or impair the validity of the remainder of
this Local Law or the application thereof to other persons or circumstances, and the Common
Council of the City of Peekskill hereby declares that it would have passed this Local Law or the
remainder thereof had such invalid application or invalid provision been apparent.

Section 10: Repeal.
All ordinances, local laws and parts thereof inconsistent with this Local Law are hereby
repealed to the extent of such inconsistency.

Section 11: Effective date.

This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Office of the Secretary of
State of the State of New York in accordance with § 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.
