                                                                                Staff:
                                                                               HERKIMER-ONEIDA COUNTIES
HERKIMER     COUNTY PLANNING BOARD
    HCPB Minutes                                                              COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING
                                                                              PROGRAM At Union Station
COUNTY Page 1 BUILDING HERKIMER, NEW YORK 13350
       OFFICE                                                               321 Main Street, Utica, NY 13501
                                                                          TEL: (315) 798-5710 FAX: (315) 798-5852
                                                                         E-MAIL: planning@ocgov.net
  MINUTES

  Herkimer County Planning Board
  Monday, May 19, 2025

  The Herkimer County Planning Board (HCPB) met in person on May 19, 2025 and the meeting was called
  to order at 12:02 p.m.


  The following were present:

  Les Stephens, HCPB Chairperson                           Frank Mendl
  Bob Drummond                                             Robyn Cadwell
  Donna Salamone                                           Kristin Campbell, HOCCPP Staff

  Minutes

  Minutes from the April 21, 2025 meeting were unanimously approved, following a motion by Bob Drummond
  and second by Donna Salamone.

  New Business

  Town of German Flatts – 12-Month Solar & Wind Moratorium
  HCPB reviewed a Local Law regarding a 12-Month moratorium on applications and approvals and/or construction
  or installation of solar energy systems, solar farms, wind energy systems, and/or windmills in the Town. Bob
  Drummond motioned for “No Recommendation”. Frank Mendel seconded, and the motion passed with all in
  favor.

  Town of German Flatts- Battery Energy Storage System Law
  HCPB reviewed a Local Law regulating battery energy storage systems and equipment in the Town. Members
  discussed that the law mentioned zoning districts which the Town does not have at this time. This should be
  removed from the law in Section 6 and 7. Additionally section 7.1.c should be updated to “Herkimer County
  Planning Board” reviews applications. Robyn Cadwell motioned for “No Recommendation” with the comments
  above. Donna Salamone seconded, and the motion passed with all in favor.

  DiFillippo– 472 Summit Road, Town of Newport
  HCPB reviewed an area variance for side yard setback for a home occupation. Members agreed the potential for
  intermunicipal and/or countywide impacts would be minimal. Bob Drummond motioned for “No
  Recommendation”. Donna Salamone seconded, and the motion passed with all in favor.

  DiFillippo - 472 Summit Road, Town of Newport
  Members reviewed a special use permit for a large home occupation. Members agreed the potential for
  intermunicipal and/or countywide impacts would be minimal. Robyn Cadwell motioned for “No
  Recommendation”. Frank Mendl seconded, and the motion passed with all in favor.
HCPB Minutes
Page 2

Morrison– 366 Graves Road, Town of Newport
HCPB reviewed a special use permit for side yard setback for a second residence on an existing lot. Members
agreed the potential for intermunicipal and/or countywide impacts would be minimal. Bob Drummond motioned
for “No Recommendation”. Donna Salamone seconded, and the motion passed with all in favor.

Pickered– 343 Newport Gray Road, Town of Newport
HCPB reviewed a special use permit for use of a keyhole lot entrance for a second residence on an existing lot.
Members agreed the potential for intermunicipal and/or countywide impacts would be minimal. Robyn Cadwell
motioned for “No Recommendation”. Frank Mendl seconded, and the motion passed with all in favor.

Hennessy– 2859 State Rte. 28, Town of Webb
HCPB reviewed a sign permit for commercial sign located at a business on NYS Rte. 28. Members agreed the
potential for intermunicipal and/or countywide impacts would be minimal. Donna Salamone motioned for “No
Recommendation”. Robyn Cadwell seconded, and the motion passed with all in favor.

Moose River HOA– 220 Crosby Blvd, Town of Webb
HCPB reviewed a boundary line adjustment to divide an existing lot and add to neighboring parcels. Members
agreed the potential for intermunicipal and/or countywide impacts would be minimal. Donna Salamone motioned
for “No Recommendation”. Robyn Cadwell seconded, and the motion passed with all in favor.

Village of Newport- Comprehensive Plan
HCPB reviewed a new comprehensive plan for the Village of Newport. Donna Salamone motioned for “No
Recommendation”. Robyn Cadwell seconded, and the motion passed with all in favor.

Other Business
The next meeting of the Herkimer County Planning Board is scheduled for June 16, 2025 at noon. The meeting
will be held in person at the Herkimer County Chamber of Commerce (420 East German Street, Herkimer, NY
13350). There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 12:35p.m.
