                                        COUNTY OF SUFFOLK                                Z-3



                                            EDWARD P. ROMAINE
                                         SUFFOLK COUNTY EXECUTIVE

                          DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING
                                              SARAH LANSDALE
                                                COMMISSIONER
  MAUREEN GETCHELL                                                                RORY WHELAN
CHIEF DEPUTY COMMISSIONER                                                       DEPUTY COMMISSIONER



                               STAFF REPORT
  SECTIONS A14-14 THRU A14-24 OF THE SUFFOLK COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE CODE

Applicant:                       Town of Huntington
Municipality:                    Town of Huntington
Location:                        Town-Wide

Received:                        04/17/2026
File Number:                     HU-26-04
Jurisdiction:                    Moratorium – Amendment to the Zoning Law – Huntington

OVERVIEW: The Town of Huntington is requesting a six (6) month moratorium on the
issuance of permits and/or approvals for Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) facilities.
A previous moratorium for BESS expired in November 2024.

The proposed moratorium text extension is provided below, verbatim from the Town:

                          LOCAL LAW NO. 17-2026
  DECLARING A SIX-MONTH MORATORIUM ON THE ISSUANCE OF PERMITS AND/OR
 APPROVALS FOR THE INSTALLATION OF BATTERY STORAGE SYSTEMS IN THE TOWN
                             OF HUNTINGTON

Section 1: Local Law No. declaring a six-month moratorium on the issuance of permits and/or
approvals for the installation of battery storage systems in the Town of Huntington.

Section 2: Legislative Intent.

The Legislative Intent of this Local Law is to impose a six-month moratorium on the issuance of
permits and/or approvals for Energy Storage Systems and Fuel Cell Power Systems. These
systems offer a role in reducing demand and costs associated with grid infrastructure operation
and expansion via environmentally friendly energy technologies. Large-scale battery storage
systems store energy from the grid during off-peak hours (when kilowatt hours are at their
lowest prices) and redistribute back into the grid during peak demand. Redistributing electricity
on- and off-peak creates a market for economic activity, benefits the community by adding
capacity while lessening the burden on existing infrastructure, and drives costs down. The
deployment of Battery Energy Storage Systems reduces the utilities' need for costly expansions
to the grid and deters the use of fossil fuels during times of peak demand.

Recently, there has been a significant amount of public concern regarding the potentially volatile
nature of lithium-ion batteries and the fear that operation of this type of land use will pose a
threat to the health, safety and welfare of the public including the impact upon the surrounding
roadways, infrastructure, and the orderly evacuation of improved areas if necessary. On July 23,
2023, New York Governor Kathy Hochul announced the formation of a new working group to

Suffolk County Planning Commission                Page 1 of 9                             May 6. 2026
bring together state agencies including New York State Energy Research and Development
Agency (NYSERDA) and the States Department of Public Service DPS and others to begin
making safety inspections of energy storage sites as well as putting in place training and plans
so that emergency responders know what to do in a fire incident.

This new working group resulted in the issuance of the New York Battery Energy Storage
System Guidebook. This Guidebook is advisory only and not legally binding. However, on July
25, 2025, New York State adopted updated energy storage safety codes. Nevertheless, local
volunteer firefighters still have significant trepidation about fighting fires at a battery storage
systems due to the concerns raised by firefighters and residents regarding potential health risks
associated with airborne contaminants produced by a battery fire that could affect the
surrounding neighborhood. The Town of Huntington requests this moratorium to revise our
Town Code and to provide time for volunteer fire departments to obtain the most advanced
firefighting training and equipment available.

This concern, coupled with the Planning Board's and Zoning Board's need for additional
information and assurance about the safety of these types of facilities, including, but not limited
to, ensuring the technology and availability of equipment necessary for local fire districts to be
able to suppress a fire should one occur, precautions related to gas emissions and deterring
any necessary fire suppression chemicals from impacting groundwater, and the adequacy of
location and other special exception standards for siting these facilities, has persuaded the
Town Board to take pause on the Zoning Code and consider the enactment of a six (6) month
limited moratorium for the review and permitting of Battery Energy Storage Systems pursuant to
Town Zoning Code §§ 198-68.3 and 198-68 A(4) while these issues are further considered and
the law is adequately revised to address any outstanding concerns, including the potential for
catastrophic failures and evacuation planning.

Section 3: Definitions.

APPLICATION - Any request or application for the development of Battery Energy Storage
Systems or Fuel Cell Systems pursuant to §§ 198-68.3 and 198-68 A (4) to include any area or
use variance applications related to Battery Energy Storage Systems throughout the Town of
Huntington.

Section 4: Moratorium.
.
No new land use applications shall be accepted pursuant to §§ 198 -68.3 or 198-68 A (4), nor
shall any pending applications continue to be processed or decided by the Town Board, the
Planning Board, or the Zoning Board of Appeals, or any other agency, department, or office of
the Town of Huntington during the Moratorium Period.

Section 5: Moratorium Period.

This moratorium shall be in effect during the period between the adoption of this Local Law and
for a period of six months following adoption of this local law, and the filing of the same with the
Secretary of State. The same may be extended by appropriate action from the Town Board.

Section 6: Exclusions.

None.

Section 7: Applications that may be exempted.

Any pending applications for Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) facilities will be stayed
during the moratorium.

Suffolk County Planning Commission           Page 2 of 9                                   May 6. 2026
Section 8. Statutory Authority/Supersession.

This Chapter is adopted pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §10(l)(ii)(a) (11) and (12) and
expressly supersedes any inconsistent provisions of Chapters 198 of the Huntington Town Code,
as well as Article 16 of New York State Town Law. In particular, this Local Law shall supersede
those provisions of the Town Code and New York State Law which require the Town Board,
Planning Board, and/or Zoning Board of Appeals to accept, process and/or approve Applications
within specified statutory time periods.

Section 9. Compliance with SEQRA.

Pursuant to 6 NYCRR section 617.5(c) (36) the imposition of an additional six-month moratorium
is a Type H action and therefore no further SEQRA review is required

Section 10. Severability.

If any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section, or other part of this local law shall for
any reason be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of this local law, and it
shall be construed to have been the legislative intent to enact this local law without such
unconstitutional or invalid parts therein.

Section 11. Effective Date.

This Local Law shall take effect upon its filing with the Office of the Secretary of the State of New
York pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law and shall expire after the six-month period after the
effective date of the moratorium.

                                          BACKGROUND


The Town of Huntington does not have a current moratorium on BESS facilities. Previously on
September 7, 2023, the Suffolk County Planning Commission approved an initial six (6) month
moratorium on BESS facilities requested by the Town of Huntington, subject to the following
comments:

    1. The Town should confirm that the temporary moratorium will only apply to BESS and
       related fuel cell power system applications (Sections 2 and 4 of their proposal), and not
       deem a larger proposed land use application unfit for review if a portion of such proposal
       includes a BESS facility or a fuel cell power system; rather that BESS or fuel cell portion
       of such a proposed application may not move forward but yet allow the remainder of said
       application to continue to be reviewed by the Town.

    2. The Town is encouraged to review the regulations adopted by other Long Island
       municipalities, as well as others nationally that may relate to BESS facilities, to help better
       understand and issue appropriate regulations that would allow for the development of
       these facilities while adhering to the Town’s concerns.

    3. The Town should be prepared to present their findings at the end of the moratorium to the
       SCPC and their proposed changes to their zoning regulations related to BESS and fuel
       cell power systems.

On April 3, 2024, the SCPC approved a proposed six (6) month extension of the moratorium,
subject to the following comments:



Suffolk County Planning Commission            Page 3 of 9                                   May 6. 2026
    1. The Town should review the available Model Law by NYSERDA that is intended to help
       local government officials and agencies having jurisdictions to adopt legislations and
       regulations to responsibly accommodate BESS in their communities, as the Town waits
       for further recommendations from the Governor’s state task force. Model Law lays out
       procedural frameworks and substantive requirements for residential, commercial, and
       utility-scale BESS facilities. (https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/Clean-Energy-
       Siting-Resources/Battery-Energy-Storage-Guidebook)

    2. The Town should consider allowing certain exclusions under their proposed moratorium
       regulations (Section 6) in order to meet any potential and/or applicable legal requirements.

    3. The Town is encouraged to continue to review and coordinate with other Long Island
       municipalities on their review of updates to local, state and national regulations that may
       relate to BESS facilities, which could help the Town better understand applicable
       appropriate regulations that would allow for the development of these facilities while
       adhering to the Town’s public safety, land use planning and other concerns.

BESS type facilities generally consist of rows of rechargeable batteries housed in self-contained,
interconnected storage units. These facilities typically operate by drawing surplus energy from the
local power grid during periods of low usage and storing it for later distribution back into the grid
during peak demand. However, they can also be used as direct storage for electricity produced
by renewable energy production facilities, like wind and solar farms. In either case, BESS facilities
stabilize the local power grid by ensuring reliability during periods when the grid might otherwise
experience a partial or total deficit in voltage, commonly known as “brownouts” and “blackouts”.

Thus, proponents of BESS offer that these facilities can reinforce the local power grid not only on
a daily or routine basis, but also during emergencies when demand is especially high or when
electrical transmission from outside the local grid is severed.

From a land use perspective, BESS facilities are generally cited as a low impact use. Once a
facility is constructed and operational, it often requires no regular staffing and only routine
maintenance. This results in virtually no traffic and almost no need for onsite parking. The facilities
can also be monitored remotely, which further reduces traffic, and onsite staffing and parking. Site
lighting at BESS facilities is also largely unnecessary, except for security purposes. The absence
of employees also means there is virtually no water consumption at BESS facilities, and
commensurately, little to no sewage. Noise (generated by cooling fans) is often the main
potentially significant planning concern associated with BESS facilities; however, noise is not
always a problem depending on the size and configuration of a project, and the industry has
implemented methods of noise mitigation (i.e., sound barriers and landscaping) in instances
where noise may be an issue.

Opponents of these facilities have raised public safety concerns over the presence of highly
flammable substances, such as from lithium-ion batteries, and possible air and groundwater
contamination. Historically, concerns about such threats were resolved by zoning certain uses out
of residential areas and restricting them to high-intensity industrial districts. However, that is not
always feasible with BESS, as these facilities must connect to the local power grid through a
substation with adequate capacity to accommodate the transmission between the facility and the
grid. The greater the distance between a BESS facility and the substation, the less efficient the
transmission will be. As a result, designing a viable BESS facility often requires in some cases
that a facility be located in or near a residential district.

The development of BESS-related facilities has been proposed and developed all over the world,
including here on Long Island. In the Town of Riverhead, the Suffolk County Planning Commission
(SCPC) reviewed a Special Use Permit and site plan by Edwards Calverton Battery Energy
Storage LLC in February 2025, for a proposed BESS facility on a 1.7-acre site at 104 Edwards



Suffolk County Planning Commission            Page 4 of 9                                    May 6. 2026
Ave., Calverton. The SCPC voted to approve that application with the following conditions and
comments:

Condition:

    1. There should be enhanced site-specific “Hazmat” training for first responders who will be
       assigned to respond to emergencies on the site, and they must be properly equipped for
       such emergency responding. The Suffolk County Planning Commission finds that first
       responder training is essential for any new BESS system and is consistent with the
       guidance offered by NYSERDA.

    2. Full containment of stormwater and other liquid materials (hazardous or nonhazardous)
       which may otherwise run off the site.

Reason:

    Given the subject properties location within a SGPA and the Suffolk County Planning
    Commission publication on Managing Stormwater-Natural Vegetation and Green
    Methodologies and in the case of an emergency response action where possible hazardous
    run-off may be widespread the Town shall incorporate stormwater collection system into the
    proposal.

Comments:

    1. The Town should verify that the proposal meets the Town’s BESS Zoning Ordinance that
       was adopted in April of 2023, set forth in Section 301-283.31 of the Town’s Zoning Code.

    2. Considering the updates to NYS Draft Fire Code Language, which were developed by
       Interagency Fire Safety Working Group and is pending adoption following the close of the
       public comment period in September of 2024. The petitioner and the Town should engage
       the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) for
       technical assistance regarding compliance with impending fire code updates and
       identify/address any potential issues for assuring responsible battery storage
       development at the subject development site.

    3. A site plan phase of the regulatory review should include a Demolition and Recycling Plan
       that mitigates the potential impacts to the surrounding land uses and Special Groundwater
       Protection Area (SGPA).

    4. The Town should verify that the petitioner meets the requirements for landscaped
       contiguous open space specified in §301-115 of the Town Code.

    5. The petitioner should consult with the Town and with New York State DEC with regards
       to stormwater runoff management, especially given the subject properties location within
       a SGPA. Prior to starting demolition, the petitioner should prepare a NYS Stormwater
       Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPP) for the site and receive all required state and local
       approvals before commencing work on the subject property.

    6. The petitioner should be encouraged to review the Suffolk County Planning Commission
       publication on Managing Stormwater-Natural Vegetation and Green Methodologies and
       incorporate into the proposal, where practical, design elements contained therein.

    7. While the proposal provides the required fencing and buffering to screen the proposed
       BESS facility from the adjacent commercial uses and the public roadway. The petitioner
       should be encouraged to establish a berm between the property located directly north of
       the project site, where Riverhead Oil Products Inc. is located.

Suffolk County Planning Commission         Page 5 of 9                                 May 6. 2026
    8. The Town should be directed to review the Suffolk County Planning Commission
       Guidelines on public Safety and Universal design and incorporate where practical design
       elements therein;

    9. Approval of the Special Use Permit by the Suffolk County Planning Commission does not
       constitute acceptance/approval of any other zoning action(s) associated therewith before
       any other local regulatory board.

Also, in the Town of Riverhead, the Suffolk County Planning Commission (SCPC) reviewed a
Special Use Permit and site plan by 221 Scott Ave Energy Storage System in June 2025, for a
proposed BESS facility on a 7.45-acre site at 221 Scott Ave., Calverton. The SCPC voted to
approve that application with the following comments:

    1. The Town should verify that the proposal meets the Town’s BESS Zoning set forth in
       Section 301-283.31 of the Town’s Zoning Code.

    2. Considering the updates to NYS Draft Fire Code Language, which were developed by
       Interagency Fire Safety Working Group and is pending adoption following the close of the
       public comment period in September of 2024. The petitioner and the Town should engage
       the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) for
       technical assistance regarding compliance with impending fire code updates and
       identify/address any potential issues for assuring responsible battery storage
       development at the subject development site.

    3. The petitioner should be encouraged to review the Suffolk County Planning Commission
       publication on Managing Stormwater-Natural Vegetation and Green Methodologies and
       incorporate into the proposal, where practical, design elements contained therein.

    4. While the proposal provides the required fencing and buffering to screen the proposed
       BESS facility from the adjacent industrial uses the petitioner should be encouraged to
       establish a berm around the 0.13-acre area where the BESS facility will be located.

    5. The Town should be directed to review the Suffolk County Planning Commission
       Guidelines on public Safety and Universal design and incorporate where practical design
       elements therein.

    6. Approval of the Special Use Permit by the Suffolk County Planning Commission does not
       constitute acceptance/approval of any other zoning action(s) associated there with before
       any other local regulatory board.

On Long Island, to date, five (5) of Long Island’s thirteen (13) towns have adopted zoning
regulations for BESS facilities: the Towns of Huntington, Brookhaven, Southampton, Riverhead,
and Islip. On June 4, 2025, the SCPC approved the proposed adoption of code changes in the
Town of Southampton related to a new Article XXXIII entitled “Battery Energy Storage Systems,”
within the Town Zoning Code. Staff notes that the current application is from the Town of
Huntington. Though the Town already has an adopted BESS code, the legislative intent of the
proposed moratorium local law states that the intent is to allow the Town to revise its BESS code
and for fire departments to obtain advanced training and equipment.

More than half of the Towns in Suffolk County have adopted moratoriums for BESS facilities, as
heard by the Suffolk County Planning Commission. Some of these moratoria have expired while
others are still active, as summarized below

    •    The Town of Southampton extended their ongoing moratorium for a third time. The original
         six (6) month moratorium (August 2023 to February 2024) was extended twice for six (6)

Suffolk County Planning Commission          Page 6 of 9                                 May 6. 2026
         months each (to March 2025) and again for three (3) months to June 2025. This
         moratorium is no longer in effect as the Town has updated its zoning code related to
         BESS.
    •    The Town of Babylon extended its initial six (6) month moratorium twice, most recently
         filing a six (6) month extension on February 13, 2026.
    •    The Town of Islip extended its initial six (6) month moratorium for an additional six (6)
         months (to March 2025), then again for six (6) months (to September 2025), and then for
         twelve (12) months (to September 2026).
    •    The town of Smithtown extended its initial three (3) month moratorium for an additional
         six (6) months (to June 2025) and again most recently in August 2025. This moratorium
         is no longer in effect.
    •    The Town of Riverhead adopted a three (3) month moratorium in November 2023. This
         moratorium is no longer in effect, and Riverhead adopted a new code for BESS in April
         2024.
    •    The Town of Southold extended their ongoing moratorium (April 11, 2023, to April 11,
         2026) for an additional twelve (12) months (to April 2027).
    •    The Town of Huntington extended their six (6) month moratorium (October 2023 to April
         2024) for an additional six (6) months (to November 2024). This moratorium is no longer
         in effect. The current application is for a new six (6) month moratorium.

In many cases, the Planning Commission approved the application with the condition that the
moratorium period be shorter than requested. April 2026, the SCPC disapproved a referral for the
Local Law of the Town of Southold for a twelve (12) month moratorium extension on the issuance
of permits and/or approvals of Battery Energy Storage System (BESS):

Reason:
On July 25, 2025, New York State adopted new updates to the New York Fire Code in conjunction
with the 2023 working group to examine the safety and security of BESS Systems. The Town is
encouraged to review adopted BESS code amendments by other Municipalities. For example,
the Town of Southampton adopted BESS code amendments with Local Law 22-2025. The code
amendment was considered and approved by the SCPC on June 4, 2025 (SH-25-04). See
Chapter 330, Article XXXII of the Southampton Town Code.
https://ecode360.com/46891737

Comments:

    1. The Town should review the now available Model Law by NYSERDA that is intended to
       help local government officials and agencies having jurisdictions to adopt legislations and
       regulations to responsibly accommodate BESS in their communities, as the available
       Model Law lays out procedural frameworks and substantive requirements for residential,
       commercial, and utility-scale BESS facilities.
       (https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/Clean-Energy-Siting-Resources/Battery-
       Energy-Storage-Guidebook)

    2. The Town should review the adopted changes to the New York State Fire Safety Code,
       which includes measures to promote enhanced review of BESS design and improved
       response to potential BESS fires by local fire departments.
       (https://dos.ny.gov/system/files/documents/2024/07/2024-07-25_fcnys_nrd-final-draft-
       document.pdf)

    3. The Town should confirm that the temporary moratorium will only apply to BESS related
       applications and not deem a larger proposed land use application unfit for review if a
       portion of such proposal includes a BESS facility, rather that BESS portion of such a


Suffolk County Planning Commission           Page 7 of 9                                 May 6. 2026
         proposed application may not move forward but allow the remainder of said application to
         continue to be reviewed by the Town.

    4. The Town should consider allowing certain exclusions under their proposed moratorium
       regulations in order to meet potential and applicable legal requirements.

    5. The Town is encouraged to review and coordinate with other Long Island municipalities
       on their review of updates to local, state and national regulations that may relate to BESS
       facilities, which could help the Town better understand applicable appropriate regulations
       that would allow for the development of these facilities while adhering to the Town’s public
       safety, land use planning and other concerns.

According to NYSERDA, there are currently two proposed BESS facilities in the Town of
Huntington. Marathon Power has a proposed Bid Power Capacity of 135MW. KCE 21 has a
proposed Bid Power Capacity of up to 240 MW. These proposals would be stayed as a result of
the proposed moratorium.


                                       STAFF ANALYSIS

As noted in the past by the Suffolk County Planning Commission, a moratorium on development
is a local law or ordinance that suspends the right of property owners to obtain development
approvals while the community takes time to consider, draft or adopt land use plans or rules to
respond to new or changing circumstances not adequately dealt with by its current law. A
moratorium preserves the status quo for a reasonable time. A moratorium is, from one
perspective, the most extreme land use action that a municipality can take because it suspends
completely the rights of owners to use their property. Such development moratoria may be general
or specific. A general imposes a ban on all development within a community (allowing for certain
hardship exemptions), while a specific moratorium may prevent development approvals in a
specific geographic area or of a certain type of development.

Staff finds that this proposed moratorium is intended to be specific and should not restrict all
development on any or all parcels within the Town; rather, it is understood that the proposed
moratorium is limited to BESS facilities only, and for a period of six (6) months.

Staff notes that the Town is proposing the moratorium extension in part because of unforeseen
circumstances that have delayed the Town’s comprehensive zoning update. The stated purpose
of the legislation includes allowing for completion of the zoning code updates prior to adoption of
a revised BESS code.

Staff notes that the Town is proposing the moratorium extension to allow time to review and
comply with BESS updates in the New York State Fire Code. (https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-
Programs/Energy-Storage-Program/New-York-Inter-Agency-Fire-Safety-Working-Group)
On July 20, 2024, the Working Group issued their Fire Code Recommendations. On July 26,
2024, New York State released proposed updates to fire safety code in relation to BESS
(https://dos.ny.gov/notice-rule-development) and accepted public comments on the new
standards through September 24, 2024. On July 28, 2025, the New York State Fire Prevention
and Building Code Council unanimously adopted updated Codes in the Uniform Fire Prevention
and Building Code, reflecting the recommendations of the working group.

Additionally, the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) has
now made available a BESS Guidebook that contains information, tools, and step-by-step
instructions to support local governments managing battery energy storage system development
in their communities. The Guidebook provides local officials with in-depth details about the
permitting and inspection process to ensure efficiency, transparency, and safety in their


Suffolk County Planning Commission           Page 8 of 9                                 May 6. 2026
communities. Local communities can download the full Energy Storage Guidebook or access
individual chapters.
(https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/Clean-Energy-Siting-Resources/Battery-Energy-
Storage-Guidebook)

Town officials note that the proposed moratorium is meant to provide the Town Board with time
to review the updated NYS fire code. The Town has been in contact with NYSERDA for additional
clarification and education and has requested support from the agency in its review and update
of the Town BESS code.

                                      RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends Disapproval of proposed Local Law of the Town of Huntington for a twelve
(12) month moratorium extension on the issuance of permits and/or approvals of Battery Energy
Storage System (BESS) facilities:

Reason:

    On July 25, 2025, New York State adopted new updates to the New York Fire Code in
    conjunction with the 2023 working group to examine the safety and security of BESS Systems.
    The Town is encouraged to review adopted BESS code amendments by other Municipalities.
    For example, the Town of Southampton adopted BESS code amendments with Local Law 22-
    2025. The code amendment was considered and approved by the SCPC on June 4, 2025
    (SH-25-04). See Chapter 330, Article XXXII of the Southampton Town Code.
    https://ecode360.com/46891737

Comments:

    1. The Town should review the now available Model Law by NYSERDA that is intended to
       help local government officials and agencies having jurisdictions to adopt legislations and
       regulations to responsibly accommodate BESS in their communities, as the available
       Model Law lays out procedural frameworks and substantive requirements for residential,
       commercial, and utility-scale BESS facilities.
       (https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/Clean-Energy-Siting-Resources/Battery-
       Energy-Storage-Guidebook)

    2. The Town should review the changes adopted to the New York State Fire Safety Code,
       which include measures to promote enhanced review of BESS design and improved
       response to potential BESS fires by local fire departments.
       (https://dos.ny.gov/system/files/documents/2024/07/2024-07-25_fcnys_nrd-final-draft-
       document.pdf)

    3. The Town should confirm that the temporary moratorium will only apply to BESS related
       applications and not deem a larger proposed land use application unfit for review if a
       portion of such proposal includes a BESS facility, rather that BESS portion of such a
       proposed application may not move forward but allow the remainder of said application to
       continue to be reviewed by the Town.

    4. The Town should consider allowing certain exclusions under their proposed moratorium
       regulations in order to meet potential and applicable legal requirements.

    5. The Town is encouraged to review and coordinate with other Long Island municipalities
       on their review of updates to local, state and national regulations that may relate to BESS
       facilities, which could help the Town better understand applicable appropriate regulations
       that would allow for the development of these facilities while adhering to the Town’s public
       safety, land use planning and other concerns.

Suffolk County Planning Commission           Page 9 of 9                                 May 6. 2026
