                          Town of Poughkeepsie
                                     Planning Department
1 Overocker Road
Poughkeepsie, NY 12603                                                                            845-485-3657 Phone


February 12, 2025
M. Welti, Director of Municipal Development

D.1.   PROPOSED LOCAL LAW – CONTINUING A TEMORARY MORATORIUM ON LARGE-SCALE
       BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS (BESS)
       Respond to a referral from the Town Board for a recommendation on a proposed local law “Continuing a
       Temporary Town-Wide Moratorium on Development of Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System Installations
       Within the Town of Poughkeepsie.”
__________________________________________________________________________________________

On January 22, 2025 the Town Board adopted Resolution 1:22 - #14 of 2025 which, among other things, referred a
proposed local law extending a temporary moratorium on large-scale battery energy storage systems (BESS) to the
Planning Board for an advisory recommendation pursuant to §210-154. The resolution and the proposed local law are
attached. The resolution also set a Town Board Public Hearing for February 19, 2025. It is expected that on February 19th
the Town Board will receive comments and adjourn the public hearing to March 5, 2025 to allow time for Dutchess
County and for the Planning Board to provide their respective recommendations.

As noted in the local law, currently the Town of Poughkeepsie Zoning Code does not contain a definition of a Large Scale
Battery Energy Storage System Installation, or specific use, area or bulk regulations for such use. The Town Board
recognizes that the Town needs to study and analyze many considerations that affect the preparation of local legislation to
regulate the future creation and siting of Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System Installations in a manner consistent
with public health, safety and community character. A moratorium has been in place since March of last year, and the
resolution describes the many steps that the Town has taken to gather information and evaluate options for regulating
these facilities since that time. The Town Board believes it is necessary to continue the temporary moratorium for an
additional period of six months in order to permit the Town adequate time in which to consider and draft suitable
legislation for this purpose.

Staff recommends that the Planning Board convey a positive recommendation to the Town Board regarding adoption of
the proposed local law.




                                                 www.townofpoughkeepsie.com                               Page 1 of 1


                   Town of Poughkeepsie
   FELICIA SALVATORE                                                     ONE OVEROCKER ROAD
      TOWN CLERK                                                        POUGHKEEPSIE, N.Y. 12603

    PHONE (845) 485-3620                                                      FAX (845) 485-8583


February 4, 2025

Via email:
Town Clerk, Town of Pleasant Valley
City Clerk, Poughkeepsie, New York
Town Clerk, Town of Lagrange
Town Clerk, Town of Hyde Park
Town Clerk, Town of Wappinger
Town Clerk, Village of Wappingers Falls
Town Clerk, Town of Marlborough
Town Clerk, Town of Lloyd
Town of Newburgh

Planning Board
Dutchess County Planning

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, pursuant to Section 239 of the General Municipal Law that the Town Board,
Town of Poughkeepsie does hereby set Wednesday, February 19th, 2025 at 7:00 p.m. as the time, date
and place of a public hearing to afford all interested parties an opportunity to be heard and seek public
comment on the proposed local law to determine whether or not the Town Board of the Town of
Poughkeepsie should adopt a proposed Local Law continuing a Temporary Town-Wide Moratorium
regarding the Development of Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System Installations for a period of six
months (subject to extension) by this Town Board

Please find copies of Resolution 01:22 # 14 of 2025 and also the Public Hearing notice for your review and
recommendation.


Sincerely,

Felicia Salvatore
Felicia Salvatore
Town Clerk
Town of Poughkeepsie


RESOLUTION 1:22 - aa OF 2025

WHEREAS, in February 2024, the Town Board adopted a moratorium on the
development of Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System Installations, finding that the
Town Code does not adequately regulate such facilities and that such facilities have the
potential to create risks to public health and safety and adverse impacts on environmental
resources and neighborhood character, which potential impacts and changes need to be
better understood, and

WHEREAS, the initial moratorium lasted for six months, it was subsequently
extended for an additional six months, and it will soon expire, and

WHEREAS, since the initial moratorium was enacted, the Town has taken
multiple steps to gather information and evaluate options for regulating Large Scale
Battery Energy Storage System Installations, including but not limited to, consulting with
the Town’s Climate Smart Task Force and Fire Advisory Committee, reaching out to
community organizations like Sustainable Hudson Valley, meeting with firefighting
experts from Energy Safety Response Group, consulting with other town supervisors via
the Dutchess County Mayors and Supervisors Association, and attending a county
planning workshop on BESS and town zoning codes, and

WHEREAS, additional research is planned in coming months, including attending
an upcoming BESS workshop at the New York Association of Towns meeting, reaching
out to the new Arlington Fire District Chief, and hosting a joint meeting with Town and
Fire District representatives, and

WHEREAS, to enable the Town Board to continue its analysis of potential

impacts and determination whether legislative action is required, it is necessary to



preserve the status quo as to the approval and development of Large Scale Battery Energy
Storage System Installations, and

WHEREAS, the Town Board hereby determines that it is in the best interest of
the citizens and property owners of the Town of Poughkeepsie to continue a temporary
moratorium on the acceptance and processing of applications for, the consideration and
approval by the Town Planning Board of site plans and special use permits for Large
Scale Battery Energy Storage System Installations, the issuance of building permits
therefore, and the consideration, approval and issuance by the Zoning Board of Appeals
of variances and interpretations relating to Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System
Installations, for an additional period of six months, subject to certain exceptions and
subject to extension, and

WHEREAS, the Town Board determines that the proposed action is a Type II
Action not subject to environmental review pursuant to 6 NYCRR §617.5 (c)(36), now
therefore

BE IT RESOLVED, that the recitations above set forth are incorporated in this
resolution as if fully set forth and adopted herein, and

BEIT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Board of the Town of
Poughkeepsie does hereby set the 19" day of February, 2025, at 7:00 p.m. at the Town
Hall, Town of Poughkeepsie, One Overocker Road, Poughkeepsie, NY, as the time, date
and place of a public hearing at which all parties in interest and citizens may be heard as
to whether or not the Town Board of the Town of Poughkeepsie should adopt the
proposed Local Law annexed hereto continuing a Temporary Town-Wide Moratorium as
described therein for a period of six months (subject to extension) by this Town Board,

and

2
Gamllegal\\2025\Vanuary\Jan 22\Reso battery moratorium.docx



BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Board of the Town of
Poughkeepsie does hereby waive the verbatim reading of said proposed Local Law and
does hereby direct the Town Clerk to spread the proposed local law across the record as if
it had been read aloud, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the Town Board of the Town of Poughkeepsie
does hereby direct the Town Clerk to refer a copy of this resolution, the annexed
proposed local law, and the Notice of Public Hearing to the municipal clerk of each
abutting municipality not less than ten (10) days prior to said public hearing and to refer a
copy of this resolution, the annexed proposed local law, and the Notice of Public Hearing
to the Dutchess County Department of Planning and Economic Development for advisory
review in accordance with §239-m of the General Municipal Law, and to distribute a
copy of this resolution, the annexed proposed local law and the Notice of Public Hearing
to the Town of Poughkeepsie Planning Board for its review and recommendation
pursuant to Town Code §210-154; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Clerk is hereby directed to post a
Notice of Public Hearing in the Town’s official newspaper, the Poughkeepsie Journal,
and on the bulletin board maintained by the Town Clerk in the Town Hall not less than

ten (10) days prior to said public hearing.

Dated: Jan J ow led ON
Moved: Lele beard WOrdd
Seconded: furor La ca

Motion passes/ fails: Ayes A Nays O

es

ES/mem
t-1/16/2025
m- 1/22/2025

3

G:\mllegal\r\2025\January\Van 22\Reso battery moratorium.docx



PRESENT/ABSENT Councilman Reuter
PRESENT/ABSENT Councilwoman Laird

PRESENT/ABSENT Councilwoman Burger

PRESENT/ABSENT Councilman Cifone
PRESENT/ABSENT Councilman Sharpe

PRESENT/ABSENT Councilwoman Shershin

PRESENT/ABSENT Supervisor Edwards

Gamllegal\\2025\January\an 22\Reso battery moratorium.docx

ABSTAIN

Zz
>
<

KB
PALIT

MTT

4



LOCAL LAW NO. OF 2025

A LOCAL LAW ENTITLED LOCAL LAW NO. ____ OF THE YEAR 2025,
CONTINUING A TEMPORARY TOWN-WIDE MORATORIUM ON
DEVELOPMENT OF LARGE SCALE BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM
INSTALLATIONS WITHIN THE TOWN OF POUGHKEEPSIE

BE IT ENACTED, by the Town Board of the Town of Poughkeepsie as follows:
Section 1; TITLE.

This Local Law shall be known and cited as Town of Poughkeepsie Local Law
No. __ of 2025 entitled “Local Law No. __ of 2025, Continuing a Temporary Town-
Wide Moratorium on Development of Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System
Installations Within the Town of Poughkeepsie.”

Section 2: PURPOSE AND INTENT.

A. Itis the intention of the Town Board of the Town of Poughkeepsie in enacting
this local law to continue the temporary suspension of the development of Large Scale
Battery Energy Storage System Installations (as defined in Section 3) within the Town of
Poughkeepsie for a period of up to six (6) months, with a potential extension up to an
additional six (6) months, pending the development and adoption of a local law or laws to
regulate and govern such installations.

B. Currently, the Town of Poughkeepsie Zoning Code does not contain a
definition of a Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System Installation, or specific use,
area or bulk regulations for such use. The Town Board recognizes that the Town needs
to study and analyze many considerations that affect the preparation of local legislation to
regulate the future creation and siting of Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System
Installations in a manner consistent with public health, safety and community character.

It is deemed necessary to enact this temporary moratorium in order to permit the Town
adequate time in which to consider and draft suitable legislation for this purpose.

C. During the period of this temporary moratorium, the Town Board intends to
suspend land use regulations in the Town Code that conflict with the effect and intent of
this local law. Further, the Town Board specifically intends to supersede the default
approval provisions of Town Law § 276(8) and other provisions of the Town Law that
conflict with the intent and operation of this local law.

Section 3: DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this local law, the following term shall have the meaning set forth:

Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System Installation — Any installation of a
rechargeable energy storage system having an aggregate energy capacity of 600kWh or


more, consisting of electrochemical storage batteries or similar technology, battery
charges, controls, power condition systems, inverters, transformers, switchgears and/or
associated electrical equipment designed to store electrical power received from a
generating or transmission source and periodically discharge power from the battery
energy storage system into the power grid. Systems typically used to provide standby or
emergency power and/or an uninterruptable power supply, load shedding, load sharing, or
similar capabilities relating to the energy consumed by a residence, farm operation or
business on site and having an aggregate energy capacity of less than 600k Wh shall not
be considered a “Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System Installation” for purposes of
the moratorium.

Section 4: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS OF FACT.

A. The Town Board hereby finds that, pending the completion of the necessary
studies, meetings, hearings, environmental review and other actions necessary and
incident to proper consideration and adoption of any revisions or amendments to the land
use regulations of the Town related to the regulation of Large Scale Battery Energy
Storage System Installations, reasonable measures must be taken to maintain the status
quo with reference to such installations for a temporary period.

B. The Town Board finds that the protection of the public interest and welfare is
necessary to prevent premature and inappropriate land use and development that would
be inconsistent with the Town Plan, or the orderly and appropriate development in the
community.

Section 5: SCOPE OF CONTROLS.

A. During the effective period of this local law, the Town Board, Planning Board,
Zoning Board of Appeals, Director of Municipal Development, Building Inspectors and
Zoning Administrator shall not permit, accept, process, interpret, deliberate upon, decide
or approve any application for a Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System Installation,
except as set forth in Section 6 below.

B. Unless permitted pursuant to Section 6 below, from the date of this local law,
no person or entity shall use any land, body of water, building, or other structure located
within the Town of Poughkeepsie for any Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System
Installation.

C. This moratorium shall be in effect beginning on the effective date of this local
law and shall expire on the earlier of (i) that date which is six (6) months after said
effective date; or (ii) the effective date of a Town Board resolution affirmatively stating
the Town Board has determined that the need for this moratorium no longer exists.

D. Under no circumstances shall the failure of the Town Board, Planning Board,
Zoning Board of Appeals, or any officer of the Town of Poughkeepsie to take any action
upon any application for a permit, variance, site plan approval, subdivision approval,


certificate of occupancy, certificate of compliance, or any other Town level approval
related to a Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System Installation constitute an
approval by default or an approval by virtue of expiration of time to respond to such
application.

Section 6: HARDSHIP.

A. Should any owner of property affected by this local law suffer any unique and
unnecessary hardship resulting from carrying out the strict letter of this local law, then
the owner of said property may apply to the Town Board of the Town of Poughkeepsie in
writing for a waiver from strict compliance with this local law upon submission of proof
of such unnecessary hardship. For the purpose of this local law, unique and unnecessary
hardship shall not be a mere delay in being permitted to make an application or waiting
for a decision on the application for a special permit, site plan, subdivision, variance or
other permit during the period of the moratorium imposed by this local law.

B. Procedure.

1. Upon submission of a written application to the Town Clerk by the property
owner seeking a waiver from this local law, the Town Board shall, within thirty (30) days
of receipt of said application, schedule a public hearing on said application upon five (5)
days notice published in the official newspaper of the Town. Notice of said public
hearing by regular mail shall be provided to abutting property owners at the address
shown on the tax rolls.

2. At said public hearing, the property owner and any other parties wishing to
present evidence with regard to the application shall have an opportunity to be heard, and
the Town Board shall, within fifteen (15) days of the close of said public hearing or at the
next regularly scheduled Town Board meeting (whichever is later), render its decision
either granting or denying the application for variation from the strict requirements of this
local law.

3. If the Town Board determines that a property owner will suffer an unnecessary
hardship if this local law is strictly applied to a particular property, then the Town Board
shall waive the application of this local law to the minimum extent necessary to provide
the property owner relief from strict compliance with this local law.

Section 7: PENALTIES FOR OFFENSES.

Any person, firm, entity or corporation that shall construct, erect, enlarge or alter
any building or structure in violation of the provisions of this local law or shall otherwise
violate any of the provisions of this local law shall be guilty of a violation and subject to
a fine of not less than $200.00 nor more than $1,000.00. Each day that the violation
continues shall be a separate offense.


Section 8: CONFLICTING LAWS SUPERSEDED.

All local laws, ordinances, or parts of local laws and ordinances, of the Town of
Poughkeepsie that are in conflict with the provisions of this local law are hereby
suspended to the extent necessary to give this local law full force and effect during the
effective period of the moratorium.

Section 9: SUPERSESSION OF THE TOWN LAW

This local law is hereby adopted pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law § 10
(1)(i) and § 10(1)(ii)(a)(14) and Statute of Local Governments § 10(6) of the State of
New York. It is the intent of the Town Board, pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §
10(1)Gi)(d)(3), to supersede all provisions of the New York State Town Law, including,
but not limited to, Town Law § 276(8), and/or those provisions relating to time limits in
connection with zoning and planning determinations, as well as to vest any authority to
approve a variance from this local law solely in the Town Board.

Section 10; SEVERABILITY.

A. Ifa court of competent jurisdiction finds any provision(s) of this law invalid,
in whole or in part, the effect of such decision shall be limited to those provisions which
are expressly stated in the decision to be invalid, and all other provisions of the law shall
continue to be separately and fully effective.

B. Ifa court of competent jurisdiction finds the application of any provision of
this law to any building, other structure or tract of land to be invalid, in whole or in part,
the effect of such decisions shall be limited to the person, property or situation involved
in the controversy, and the application of any such provision to any other person,
property or situation shall not be affected.

C. The provisions of this local law are separable and if any provision, clause,
sentence, subsection, word or part thereof is held illegal, invalid or unconstitutional, or
inapplicable to any person or circumstance, such illegality, invalidity, or
unconstitutionality, or inapplicability, shall not affect or impair any of the remaining
provisions, clauses, sentences, subsections, words, or parts of this local Jaw or their
application to other persons or circumstances. It is hereby declared to be the legislative
intent of the Town Board of the Town of Poughkeepsie that this local law would have
been adopted if such illegal, invalid or unconstitutional provision, clause, sentence,
subsection, word or part had not been included therein, and if such person or
circumstance to which the local law or part thereof is held inapplicable had been
specifically exempt therefrom.


Section 11: TERM.

This local law shall remain in force for a period of six (6) months from its
effective date. This local law is subject to review and renewal by the Town Board of the
Town of Poughkeepsie for up to six (6) additional months by resolution of this Town
Board.

Section 12: EFFECTIVE DATE.

This local law shall take effect upon its adoption and filing with the Secretary of
State.


                                LEGAL NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING


         PLEASE TAKE NOTICE, that the Town Board of the Town of Poughkeepsie does hereby set the
19th day of February 2025 at 7:00 p.m. at the Town Hall, Town of Poughkeepsie, One Overocker Road,
Poughkeepsie, NY, as the time, date and place of a public hearing at which all parties in interest and
citizens may be heard regarding the following:
A Proposed Local Law to determine whether or not the Town Board of the Town of Poughkeepsie should
adopt the proposed Local Law annexed hereto continuing a Temporary Town-Wide Moratorium
regarding the Development of Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System Installations as described
therein for a period of six months (subject to extension) by this Town Board
         AND PLEASE ALSO TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that said proposed local law is available in full
with Exhibit to preview on our website @ https://ny-poughkeepsietown.civicplus.com/300/Public-Hearings
or in person @ the Town Clerk’s Office, Monday – Friday, 8AM – 4PM.

Felicia Salvatore, Town Clerk
Town of Poughkeepsie
January 23, 2025
