LOCAL LAW NO. 1_OF 2026 TO EXTEND A MORATORIUM RELATED TO LARGE-
SCALE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS AND LARGE-SCALE BATTERY ENERGY
STORAGE SYSTEMS IN THE TOWN OF WEST BLOOMFIELD.
BE IT ENACTED, by the Town Board of the Town of West Bloomfield, Ontario County, State
of New York, as follows:

Section A.       Authorization.

This local law is enacted pursuant the authority granted by New York State Municipal Home
Rule Law Section 10, which permits the Town of West Bloomfield to adopt local laws to provide
for the government, protection, order, conduct, safety, health and well-being of the persons and
property in the Town of West Bloomfield.

Section B.       Legislative Findings and Purpose.

The Town Board finds that the Town Code of the Town of West Bloomfield may not contain
adequate provisions addressing or regulating large scale solar energy systems, as defined in
Chapter 140, Article 96.1 of the Town Code, and large scale battery energy storage systems,
(defined generally as installations having an aggregate energy capacity of 600kWh or more,
consisting of electrochemical storage batteries or similar technology, battery chargers, controls,
power conditioning systems, inverters, transformers, switchgears and associated electrical
equipment designed to store electrical power received from a generating or transmission source
and periodically discharging power into the power grid for off-site consumption) (collectively as
“large scale solar energy systems”), such as appropriate locations and the conditions under which
they may be allowed to operate in the Town, including compatibility with existing uses in the
area. The Town Board has been, and continues to be, engaged in an evaluation of the Town
Code to potentially address the various issues concerning large scale solar energy systems.

In furtherance of the above, on or about 9/11/24 the Town Board adopted Local Law No. 4 of
2024 which established a one year moratorium on large scale solar energy systems and large
scale battery energy storage systems within the Town, and on or about the Town Board adopted
Local Law No. 3 of 2025, which extended said moratorium for an additional six (6) months in
order to further consider and evaluate comprehensive regulations related thereto.

The Town Board continues to consider and evaluate comprehensive regulations related thereto,
and believes that an extension of the existing moratorium for an additional six (6) months, until
September 11, 2026, is necessary to complete its evaluation and adoption of said regulations.

It is the intention of the Town Board to preserve the status quo during this period of review and
study and to preclude the establishment of any new large-scale solar energy systems and large-
scale battery energy storage systems within the Town before appropriate legislation is enacted or
it is determined that no further legislation is needed. Therefore, the Town Board has determined
that there is a critical and compelling need, and that it is in the best interest of the government,
protection, order, conduct, safety, health and well-being of the persons and property in the Town
of West Bloomfield, to extend a temporary moratorium on the consideration and issuance of any

22980326.v2-2/4/26
and all permits, certificates, licenses, and approvals (hereinafter collectively referred to as
“Approvals”) for the construction, use, and/or operation of large scale solar energy systems and
large scale battery energy storage systems within the Town of West Bloomfield.

Section C.       Moratorium Scope and Timing.

Until September 11, 2026, (or sooner if the Town Board so determines and repeals this
moratorium), there shall continue to be a moratorium on large scale solar energy systems and
large scale battery energy storage systems within the Town of West Bloomfield.

Section D.       Validity and Severability.

Should any word, section, clause, paragraph, sentence, part or provision of this local law be
declared invalid by a Court of competent jurisdiction, such determination shall not affect the
validity of any other part hereof.

Section E.       Repeal, Amendment and Supersession of Other Laws.

All other ordinances or local laws of the Town of West Bloomfield which are in conflict with the
provisions of this local law are hereby superseded or repealed to the extent necessary to give this
local law force and effect during its effective period.

Section G.       Effective Date.

This Local Law will take effect immediately upon filing with the New York Secretary of State.




22980326.v2-2/4/26                               2
