                                 Local Law       03-2025
Intro LL-1
Councilmember           STOVER        presented the following and moved its adoption:

  LOCAL LAW ESTABLISHING A MORATORIUM ON INDUSTRIAL SOLAR AND
                BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS

Part 1: Legislative Intent – The City of Gloversville Common Council desires to enact a
moratorium on industrial solar and battery energy storage systems to allow city officials the
appropriate time to investigate and understand any negative effects that commercial solar and
battery energy storage systems could have on the health, safety and welfare of the public. The
moratorium will also allow city officials to have a proactive approach in how industrial solar and
battery energy storage systems could impact the fulfillment and vision of many redevelopment
goals.

Part 2: Temporary Moratorium - For a period of six (6) months following the adoption of the Local
Law, no new applications for industrial solar and battery energy storage systems shall be accepted
or processed by the City, and no permit by any City agency shall be issued for the same.

Part 3: Definitions –

Ground-Mounted Solar Panel – a solar panel that is directly installed in the ground and is not
attached or affixed to an existing structure. Pole-mounted, shed-mounted, or freestanding canopy-
mounted solar panels shall be considered ground-mounted solar panels.

Battery Energy Storage System – one or more devices, assembled together, capable of storing
energy in order to supply electrical energy at a future time.

Part 4: Exceptions – This moratorium shall not apply to residential solar panel installations
regardless of whether or not the panels are ground-mounted, so long as the total solar panel
installation on a single residential tax map parcel is designed to generate no more than 110% of
the electricity consumed over the previous twelve-month period for the existing parcel. This
moratorium shall not apply to stand-alone 12-volt car batteries, electric motor vehicles or any
battery energy storage unit used on residential property for the benefit of such property only.

Part 5: Separability – Each separate provision of this Local Law shall be deemed independent of
all other provisions herein and if any provisions shall be deemed or declared invalid, all other
provisions hereof shall remain valid and enforceable.

Part 6: Effectiveness – A public hearing having been held on March 11, 2025 and upon ratification
by Common Council by at least three-fourths of the councilmembers in office (6 yes votes), the
instant Local Law shall become effective pursuant to C-28 of the Charter of the City of
Gloversville, and filed with the Secretary of State.
        Seconded by Councilmember:   ZARRELLI

              Aye:     7

              Nay:     0

              Dated:   03/11/2025

             Aye       Nay                       Aye   Nay
ANADIO       X                        STOVER      X
BATCHELOR    X                        WEISS       X
MCNAMARA     X                        ZARRELLI    X
PETERS        X
