                                     TOWN OF MILTON

                          LOCAL LAW ______OF THE YEAR 2025


 A LOCAL LAW ENTITLED “ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON
LARGE/COMMERCIAL SCALE SOLAR ENGERY INSTALLATIONS AND BATTERY
            STORAGE FACILITIES IN THE TOWN OF MILTON”

Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Milton as follows:


SECTION 1: TITLE

                This Local Law shall be known as “Establishing a Temporary Moratorium on
Large/Commercial Scale Solar Energy Installations and Battery Storage Facilities Within the
Town of Milton”. It is adopted pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §10, relevant provisions
of the New York State Town Law, and the general police powers vested in the Town to promote
the health, safety, and welfare of all of the residents and property owners in the Town.

SECTION 2: PURPOSE AND INTENT

                 The Town Board recognizes that solar energy offers benefits for energy
conservation and reduction of reliance on fossil fuels and, as such, the development of solar
energy facilities continues to grow. However, the installation of large-scale solar energy
facilities, panels, equipment and accessories together with battery energy storage systems may
have adverse impacts on public health and safety, aesthetics and character, as well as on
neighboring land uses. The Town of Milton Zoning Laws currently do not include sufficient
regulations of “Solar Farms”, nor does it currently regulate battery energy storage systems
associated with such. In addition, the number of Solar Farms that have been constructed in the
Town and the Towns and municipalities surrounding the Town of Milton is raising concerns over
the orderly development of land and the impacts of devoting so much open space and
agricultural lands to solar energy production. This Moratorium is necessary in order to
temporarily restrict the development of commercial solar facilities, solar farms and battery
energy storage systems so that the Town Board may thoroughly consider the impacts of such
uses, their appropriate locations in the community and how to encourage appropriate
development of such facilities within the Town’s land use development and zoning objectives
while continue to preserve and protect the rural charm and agricultural character of the Town.
The Town Board has determined that this temporary moratorium would best enhance and protect
the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the Town of Milton.

                The Town Board is currently in the middle of considering and drafting
changes to the Town’s Zoning Ordinances, as well as updates to the Town’s Comprehensive
Plan, so as to provide better tools to best maintain the directives and intent of the Comprehensive
Plan. The Moratorium is intended to provide a temporary zoning stop-gap to halt all pending,
proposed, and future applications to ensure that no Large-Scale Solar Installations and/or Battery
Storage Facilities are considered or acted upon in the Town of Milton until the Town Board: (1)
prepares and completes its revisions to the Comprehensive Plan; (2) prepares, considers, and
finalizes revisions to its Zoning Laws, Subdivision regulations, or other pertinent sections of the
Town Code, to better implement the recommendations in the Town’s Comprehensive Plan; and
(3) completes the process of the adoption of any amendments to the Town of Milton Zoning and
Land Use regulations. This Local Law is intended to temporarily prohibit the creation or siting of
Large-Scale/Commercial Solar Power Installations (as herein later defined) and solar battery
energy systems within the Town of Milton for a period of twelve (12) months or any extensions
thereafter, if any, as deemed appropriate by the Town Board. During the pendency of the
moratorium, the Town Board will consider how best to permit such installation so as to
harmoniously integrate such installations with the existing agricultural community and
landscape. At present, the Zoning Code of the Town of Milton may not adequately regulate such
land use.

              This Local Law shall supersede and suspend those provisions of the Zoning Laws
of the Town of Milton and New York State Law which require the Town Board, Planning Board,
Zoning Board of Appeals and/or Town Code Enforcement Officer to accept, review, process, and
approve land use applications within certain statutory time periods.

               For these reasons, the Town Board finds that temporary moratorium legislation is
both advisable and necessary for a reasonable and defined period of time in order to best
protect and further the public interest, health and safety, and as part of the Board’s never ending
commitment to protect the rural charm and agricultural character of the Town of Milton.

SECTION 3: DEFINITIONS

               For purposes of this Local law, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively set forth below:

                Large-Scale Solar Installations(s) – Any installation of solar panels, equipment
and/or buildings or structures capable of generating greater than 25 kwh of power from the sun
and converting such power into electricity for resale to or by a third party (which shall not
include any individual or business that directs such produced energy back into the public grid
predominantly to off-set their own energy consumption). Large-Scale Solar Installations
specifically do not include any solar panel collection system or array undertaken by individual
landowners, homeowners or farmers for their own personal use or the use of a business owned
by them.

               Battery Energy Storage System(s) – One or more devices, assembled together,
capable of storing energy in order to supply electrical energy at a future time.

               Battery Energy Storage Facility – A building that is built for the primary
intention of housing battery energy storage system equipment, is classified as Group F-1
occupancy as defined in the International Building Code, and complies with the following:

               1) The buildings main use is battery energy storage, energy generation, and other
                  electrical grid-related operations.
               2) Occupants in the rooms and areas containing battery energy storage systems
                  are limited to certified personnel that operate, maintain, service, test, and
                  repair the battery energy storage system and other energy systems.
               3) Administrative and support personnel are permitted in areas within the
                  buildings that do not contain battery energy storage system, provided the areas
                  do not occupy more than 10 percent of the building area of the story in which
                  they are located and a means of egress is provided from the administrative and
                  support use areas to the public way that does not require occupants to traverse
                  through areas containing battery energy storage systems or other energy
                  system equipment.

SECTION 4: TEMPORARY MORATORIUM AND PROHIBITION

                 A.     From and after the date this Local Law is adopted by the Town Board and
for a period of twelve (12) months thereafter, no pending application or new applications for a
permit, zoning permit, special use permit, zoning variance, site plan approval, subdivision
approval, building permits, Certificates of Compliance, or other Town-level approval of any
nature shall be accepted, processed, entertained, approved, approved conditionally, or issued by a
board, employee, official or agent of the Town of Milton, for the construction, establishment,
or use or operation of any land, body of water, building, or other structure located within the
Town of Milton for a Large-Scale Solar Installation and/or Battery Energy Storage System
Facilities, as defined above. This Moratorium shall apply equally as well to any pending
applicants and applications, and shall act to immediately stop any further review or construction
thereof, except the following currently pending applications, if any:
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________.

This Moratorium shall equally apply to all zoning districts and all property within the
Town of Milton.

                B.     From and after the date this Local Law is adopted by the Town Board and
for a period of twelve (12) months thereafter, no person shall use, cause, or permit to be used,
any land, body of water, building, or other structure located within the Town of Milton for any
Large-Scale Solar Installation and/or Battery Energy Storage System Facilities, as defined above.

                C.       The prohibitions set forth above in Clauses A and B of this Section are
not intended, and shall not be construed, to prevent or prohibit the use and development of solar
panel arrays or collection systems for any personal or individual use on or about any residence,
or any family farm, so long as such use does not produce energy for the purpose of use by or
resale to or by any third party. The term “use by or resale to or by any third party” as used
immediately above shall not be construed to include any individual that directs such produced
energy back into the public grid solely to offset their own energy consumption.

              D.     This moratorium and prohibition shall be in effect immediately upon its
adoption and subsequent filing with Secretary of State and shall expire pursuant to its terms
herein, or on the effective date of a Town Board resolution affirmatively stating the Town Board
has determined that the need for this moratorium and prohibition no longer exists.

                E.     This moratorium and prohibition shall apply to all real property within the
Town of Milton and all land use applications for the siting or creation of Large-Scale Solar
Installations and/or Battery Energy Storage System Facilities within the Town of Milton.

                F.     Under no circumstances shall the failure of the Town Board of the Town
of Milton, the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Town of Milton, the Planning Board of the
Town of Milton, or the Code Enforcement Officer of the Town of Milton to take any action
upon any new applications for a building permit, zoning permit, special use permit, zoning
variance, site plan approval, subdivision approval, or other Town-level approval constitute an
approval by default or an approval by virtue of expiration of time to respond to such
application.

              G.      The Term of this temporary moratorium shall be for a period of twelve
(12) months from the effective date hereof.

SECTION 5: PENALTIES

               A.      Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this Local Law shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) or
imprisonment for not more than ten (10) days, or both for the first offense. Any subsequent
offense within a three-month period shall be punishable by a fine or not more than Two
Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00) or imprisonment for a period of not more than 30
days, or both. For purposes of this Clause A, each day that a violation of this Local Law exists
and/or continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense subject to a separate and distinct
fine.

               B.      Compliance with this Local Law may also be compelled, and violations
restrained by order or by injunction of a court of competent jurisdiction, in an action brought on
behalf of the Town of Milton.

               C.      In the event the Town is required to take legal action to enforce this Local
Law, the violator will be responsible for any and all costs incurred by the Town relative thereto,
including attorney’s fees, and such amounts shall be determined and assessed by the Court. If
such expense is not paid within 30 days from the date it is determined and assessed by the Court,
such expense shall be charged to the property(ies) within the Town on which the violation
occurred, by including such expense in the next annual Town tax levy against such property, and
such expense shall be a lien upon such property until paid.

               D.      It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer to enforce the
provisions of this Local Law.
SECTION 6: CONFLICTS

               For and during the stated term of this legislation, unless the stated term thereof
shall be modified or changed by the Town Board, this moratorium shall take precedence over
and shall control over any contradictory local law, ordinance, regulation or Code provision.

SECTION 7: HARDSHIP

               A. Hardship. Should any owner of any real property affected by this Local Law
suffer an extreme or unique hardship due to the enactment and application of this Local Law,
then the owner of said real property may apply to the Town Board, in writing, for a variance
from strict compliance with this Local Law upon submission of proof of such unnecessary
hardship.

               B.      Delay does not constitute hardship. For purposes of this Local Law,
unnecessary hardship shall not be the mere delay in being permitted to make an application or
waiting for a decision on the application for a variance, special permit, site plan, subdivision,
building permit, or any other permit during the period of the moratorium, or any extensions
thereof, imposed by this Local Law.

                C.      Procedure. Any request for a hardship variance shall be filed in writing
with the Town Board. Upon receipt of any such written request for a variance, the Town Board
shall refer such written request to the Town of Milton Zoning Board of Appeals for its
recommendation, with such recommendation to be provided by the Zoning Board within sixty
(60) days of the Zoning Board’s receipt of such request. The Town Board shall hold a public
hearing within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the Zoning Board’s recommendation, upon
minimum five (5) days’ notice published in the official newspaper of the Town. At said public
hearing, the party requesting the variance and any other parties wishing to present evidence with
regard to the variance request shall have an opportunity to be heard. The Town Board shall
render a decision on such variance request within sixty-two (62) days of the close of the public
hearing. If the Town Board determines that the party making the variance request will suffer an
unnecessary hardship if this Local Law is strictly applied to a particular property, then the Town
Board shall have the authority to waive the application of this Local Law to the minimum extent
necessary to provide the requesting party relief from the strict application of this Local Law.

               D.      In reviewing such a request, the Town Board may consider:

                     1.      Whether the variance or waiver will adversely affect the purpose of
               the Moratorium, the health, safety or welfare of the Town or will substantially
               undermine the land-use planning and potential revision process under review.

                      2.      The Town Board may take into account the existing land use in the
               immediate vicinity of the property, whether the lot is vacant or developed,
               the impact of the variance or waiver on infrastructure, neighborhood and
               community character, community planning goals and objectives, natural
               resources, government services, and other environmental issues.
                      3.      Whether the proposed project will otherwise comply with all other
               applicable provisions of the Town’s local laws, Town Code, and the Town’s
               Comprehensive Plan.

                      4.      Whether the Moratorium would leave the property owner or
               applicant completely unable, after a thorough review of alternative solutions,
               to have a reasonable alternative use of the property.

                E.       Any application for a variance or waiver shall be filed with the Town
Clerk of the Town of Milton and shall include a fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the
processing of such application. An application for a variance or waiver shall contain the
complete details of the proposed project. To the extent that the Town Board requires a
consultant to assist it in reviewing such application, it may also require the applicant to pay the
reasonable cost of such consultant. Any consultant shall be chosen and selected at the sole
discretion of the Town Board.

                F.     In the sole discretion of the Town Board, the Board may refer any
application for a variance or waiver of this Local Law to any official, department, and/or land
use board for a recommendation. The Town Board shall be not bound by any recommendation
of any official, department, or land use board and shall conduct a public hearing and make a final
decision on the application, with or without conditions.

                G.     The Town Board shall notify the applicant of the Board’s decision to
approve, approve with conditions, or deny an application to vary or waive the application of any
provision of the Moratorium. In the event that the Town Board determines to approve such
application, the applicant may seek approvals from the relevant officials and/or land use boards
under the terms set forth within the Town Board’s decision.

SECTION 8: CONFLICTS WITH STATE STATUES AND LOCAL LAWS AND
          AUTHORITY TO SUPERSEDE

                To the extent that any law, ordinance, rule or regulation or parts thereof, including
all deadlines for making decisions, interpretations or determinations, is in conflict with the
provisions of this Local Law, including, but not limited to, all provisions of the Town Code, all
provisions of Article 16 of the New York State Town Law concerning special use permits, site
plans, and subdivisions, including, but not limited to, Section 276(8) (“default approvals”), as
well as building permit and certificate of occupancy procedure and requirements, this Local Law
shall control, and such other laws are hereby superseded.

                Pursuant to the same powers, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
this Local Law supersedes and/or varies the provisions contained in Article 8 of the
Environmental Conservation Law (known as the State Environmental Quality Review Act) and
the regulations thereunder to the extent that such provisions require that an agency adhere to
certain specified timeframes.
SECTION 9: NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY REVIEW ACT

              This Local Law constitutes a Type II Action under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act because it constitutes the adoption of a moratorium on land development or
construction. As such this “action” is not subject to further review under the New York State
Environmental Quality Review Act.

SECTION 10: SEVERABILITY

                If any word, phrase, sentence, part, section, subsection, or other portion of this
Local Law, or the application thereof to any person or to any circumstance, is adjudged or
declared invalid or unenforceable by a court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction, then, and
in such event, such judgment or declaration shall be confined in its interpretation and operation
only to the provision of this Local Law that is directly involved in the controversy in which such
judgment or declaration is rendered, and such judgment or declaration of invalidity or
unenforceability shall not affect or impair the validity or enforceability of the remainder of this
Local Law or the application hereof to any other persons or circumstances. If necessary as to
such person or circumstances, such invalid or unenforceable provision shall be and be deemed
severed here from, and the Town Board of the Town of Milton hereby declares that it would
have enacted this Local Law, or the remainder thereof, even if, as to particular provisions and
person or circumstances, a portion hereof is severed or declared invalid or unenforceable.

SECTION 11: EXTENSIONS

             This Moratorium may be extended for such additional periods as the Town Board
may determine to be necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
the Town of Milton and accomplish the stated purposes and intent of this Local Law.


SECTION 12: EFFECTIVE DATE

               The effective date of this Local Law shall be immediately upon its adoption by
the Town Board and its subsequent filing with the Secretary of State and shall be immediately
effective upon a person or business individually served with a copy thereof before its filing with
the Secretary of State.



Enacted:       ______________________________, 2025


By Order of the Milton Town Board.
