                                                                                                             New York State
                                                                                                        Department of State
                     Department of State                                                       DIVISION OF CORPORATIONS,
        STATE
        YORK        Corporations, State Records & UCC                                                 STATE RECORDS AND
                                                                                               UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE
                                                                                                         One Commerce Plaza
                                                                                                          99 Washington Ave.

                                                                                                        Albany, NY 12231- 0001
                                                                                                                   dos. ny.gov

Local Law Filing
                                     Pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §27


Local Law Number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government listed below:
                                        Three ( 3)
                                                             of the year 20 26

Local Law Title: Amendment to Chapter 106 of the Town Code - Battery Energy Storage Systems




                                     Town Board                                                                     of the
              Be it enacted by the
                                                       Name of Legislative Body)



                  County         City         I Town                 Village
              Select one)



              of Albion                                                               as follows on the attached pages:

                                     Name of Local Government)




  For Office Use Only




 Department of State Local Law Index Number:                                       of the year 20


  The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
 local law number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government.)

DOS -0239 -a -f ( Rev. 02- 25)                                                                                  page   1   of 3
                    LOCAL LAW #            OF 202(7 AMENDING MUTER 106
                          OF THE ALBION TOWN CODE CONCERNITG
                            BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS


         Be it enacted by the Albion 'Town Board, County of Orleans, State ofNew York
  hereinafter referred to as the Board), as follows:


                                    SECTION 1. TITLE (&106- 1) •



         This Local Law shall be referred to
                                               as the " Local Law #
                                                                       of 2025 Amending Chapter

 106 to the Albion Town Code in the Town of Albion".



                            SECTION 2. AUTHORIZATION 0105-2)




        This Battery Energy Storage System Law is adopted pursuant to Article 1X ofthe New
York State Constitution, §2(c)( 6) and (10), New York Statute ofLocal Governments, § 10( 1) and
 7); Sections 261- 263 ofthe Town Law and Section. 10 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law ofthe
State ofNew York, which authorize the Town ofAlbion to adopt zoning provisions that advance
and protect the health, safety and welfare of the community.



                        SECTION 3. PURPOSE AND INTENT 0106-3)




        This Local Law is adopted to advance and protect the public health., safety, welfare, and
quality of life ofthe Town ofAlbion. (hereinafter referred to as Albion) by creating regulations
for the installation and use ofbattery energy storage systems, with thefollowing objectives:
                                                  1
         A. To provide a regulatory scheme for the designation ofproperties suitable for the
 location, construction and operation of Battery Energy Storage Systems.
         B. To ensure compatible land uses in the vicinity ofthe areas affected by Battery Energy
 Storage Systems.


         C. To mitigate the impacts of battery energy storage systems on environmental resources
 such as important agricultural lands, forests, wildlife and other protected resources.

         D. To create synergy between. Battery Energy Storage System development and other
 stated goals of Albion pursuant to its Comprehensive Plan.

        E. This zoning ordinance does not supersede any other state or federal regulation
pertaining to electrical storage laws. Any conflict between this Local Law with State Law,

Federal Law and/or related utility regulations shall be resolved by application of State Law,
Federal Law or utility regulation.



                              SECTION 4. DEFINITIONS (§ 106- 4)




        As used in this Chapter, the follo`ying terms shall have the meanings indicated:
       A. ANSI: American National Standards Institute.


       B. BATTERY(TES): A single cell or a group of cells connected together electrically in
series, in parallel, or a combination ofboth, which can charge, discharge, andstore energy
electrochemically. For the purposes of this law, batteries utilized in consiaer products are
excluded from these requirements.


       C. BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: An electronic

system that protects energy storage systems from operating outsidethersafe operating

                                                  2
parameters and disconnects electrical power to the energy storage system or places it in a safe
condition if potentially hazardous temperatures or other conditioas are detected.

        D. BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM: One or more devices assembled

together and capable of storing energy in order to supply electrical energy at a future time, not to

include a stand-alone 12 -volt car battery or an electric motor vehicle. A Battery Energy Storage
System is classified as a Tier 1 or Tier 2 battery energy storage system as follows:

                 1) Tier 1 Battery Energy Storage Systems have aa aggregate energy capacity less

than or equal to 600kWh and, if in a room or enclosed area, consist ofonly a single energy

storage system technology.

                 2) Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity

greater than 600kWh or are comprised of one or more storage battery technology in a room or

enclosed area.




        E. CELL: The basic electrochemical unit, characterized by an anode and a cathode used

to receive, store, and deliver electrical energy.

        E. COMMISSIONING: A systematic process that provides documented confirmation


that a Battery Energy Storage System functions according to the intended design criteria and

complies with applicable code requirements.



        G. DECOMM[SSIONING: A systematic process for the removal ofthe Battery Energy

Storage System from the property and the restoration of the property at abandonment or closure

ofthe system including financial responsibility of its removal.

        H. DEDICA'1'FD-USE BUILD -
                                NG: A building that is built for the prunary intention of

housing Battery Energy Storage System equipment and is classified. as Group F- 1 occupancy as
defined in the International Building Code, all in compliance with.ttefollowing:


                                                    3
                1) The building' s only use is battery energy storage, energy generation and other

electrical grid-related operations.



                2) No other occupancy types are permitted in the buildiba•

                3) Occupants in the rooms and areas containing Battery-Energy Storage Systems
are limited to personnel that operate, maintain, service, test, and repair the Battery Energy

Storage Systems and other energy systems.

                4) Administrative and support personnel are permitted in areas within the

buildings that do not contain a Battery Energy Storage System, provided the following:
                        a. The areas do not occupy more than Ten Percent ( 1 O%) of the building
area ofthe story in which they are located.

                        b. A means of egress is provided from the administrative and support use

areas to the public way that does not require occupants to traverse through areas containing

Battery Energy Storage Systems or other energy system equipment.

        I. ENERGY CODE: The New York State Energy Conservation Construction Code

adopted pursuant to Article 11 of the Energy Law, as currently in effect and as hereafter

amended from time to time.

         J. FIRE CODE: The fire code section of the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention

and Building Code adopted pursuant to Article 18 ofthe Executive law as currently in effect and
 as hereafter amended from time to time.

         K. NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED TESTING LABORATORY (NRTL): A U.S.

 Department of Labor designation recognizing a private sector organization to perform

 certification for certain products to ensure that they meet the requirements of both the

 construction and general industry OSHA electrical standards.


                                                    4
            L. NEC: National Electric Code.

          M. NFPA: National Fire Protection Association.

          N. NON-DEDICATED-USE BUILDING: All buildings tact contain a Battery Energy
  Storage System and do not comply with the dedicated-use building requirements.
          0. NON-PARTICIPATNG PROPERTY: Any property that is not aparticipating
 property.


         P. NON-PARTICIPATING RESIDENCE: Any residence located on Non-participating
 Property.

         Q. OCCUPIED CON1MUI\r[ Ty BUILDING: Any building in Occupancy Group A, B,
 E, I, R as defined in the International Building Code including, but not limited to, schools
 colleges, daycare facilities, hospitals, correctional facilities, publiclibra-ies, theaters, stadiums,
 apartments, hotels and houses of worship.

         R. PARTICIPATING PROPERTY: A Battery Energy Storage System host property or
any real property that is the subject ofan agreement that provides for the payment ofmonetary
compensation to the landowner from the Battery Energy Storage Systern owner (or affiliate)
regardless ofwhether any part of a Battery Energy Storage System is coastructed on the
property.


        S. UL: Underwriters Laboratory, an accredited standards developer in. the United States.
        T. UNIFORM CODE: •The New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code
adopted pursuant to Executive Law Article 18 as currently in effect and as may be amended from
time to time.




                             SECTION 5. APPLICABILITYIOb- 5



                                                    5
       A. The requirements of this Local Law shall apply to all Battery Energy Storage Systems
permitted, installed or modified in Albion after the effective date of this Local Law.

       B. Battery Energy Storage Systems constructed or installed priorto the effective date of
this Local Law shall not be required to meet the requirements ofthis Local Law.

        C. Modifications to, retrofits of or replacements of an existing Battery Energy Storage

System that increase the total Battery Energy Storage Systems designeddischarge duration or
power rating shall be subject to this Local Law.



            SECTION 6. BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS -GENERAL
                                    REQUIREMENTS 0106- 6)




        A. A building permit shall be required for installation ofall Battery Energy Storage
Systems issued by the Albion Building Department. An electrical inspection must be conducted
by an approved electrical inspection agency for Albion.
        B. Issuance of approvals by the Albion Planning Board for Tiei2 systems and shall

include review pursuant to the State Environmental Quality Review -Act including ECL Article 8

and its implementing regulations at 6 NYCRR Part 617 (" SEQRA"),
        C. All Battery Energy Storage Systems, all dedicated use buildings, and all other
buildings or structures that contain or are otherwise associated with a Battery Energy Storage

System and subject to the Uniform Code and/or the Energy Code shall be designed, erected, and

installed in accordance with all applicable provisions of said codes as well as all applicable

provisions of the Albion Town Code.




                                                   6
     SECTION 7. PERMITTING REOU REh4ENTS FOR TIER 1 BATTERY ENERGY
                                   STORAGE SYSTEMS 0106- 71




       Tier 1 Battery Energy Storage Systems shall be permitted incl zoning districts, subject
to the Uniform Code and the "Battery Energy Storage System Permit," and exempt from site
plan review. Permits shall be issued by the Albion Building Depaxtinent.



      SECTION 8. PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS FOR TIER 2 BATTERY ENERGY
                                   STORAGE SYS1EMS (§ 106- 81




        A. Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems are permitted in all zon ing districts through
the issuance of a special use permit, and shall be subject to the Unifonu Code and the site plan

application requirements set forth in this Section.

        B. Applications for the installation of Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage System shall be:
                1) reviewed by the Albion Planning Board for completeness. An application
shall be complete when it addresses all matters listed in this Local Law including, but not limited
to, compliance with the Uniform Code, the Energy Code, addressing matters relating to

floodplain, utility lines, electrical circuitry, signage, lighting, vegetation, tree -cutting, noise,
decommissioning, site plan considerations, special use considerations, ownership changes,

 safety, emergency operation plan, easements, permit time frame and abandonment. Applicants
 shall be advised within fifteen (15) business days as to the status of t-he application.

                 2) subject to a public hearing to hear all comments fbr and against the

 application. The Albion Planning Board shall have a notice printed in. a newspaper of general
 circulation in Albion at least five (5) days in advance of such hearing. Applicants shall deliver

 the notice by first class mail to adjoining landowners or landowners within five hundred (500)
                                                      7
feet of the property at least ten ( 10) days prior to such hearing. Proof of nailing shall be

provided to the Albion Planning Board at the public hearing.

                3) referred to the Orleans County Planning Department pursuant to General
Municipal Law § 239- m if required.

                4) upon closing of the public hearing, the Albion Planning Board shall take

action on the application within sixty two (62) days ofthe public hearing, which can include
approval, approval with conditions, or denial. The sixty two (62)-day period may be extended

upon consent by both the Albion Planning Board and the Applicant.

                5) upon approval of the Albion Planning Board any application for a building

permit is to be made to the Albion Building Department.

        C. Utility Lines and Electrical Circuitry. All on-site utility lines shall be placed
underground to the extent feasible and as permitted by the serving utility, with the exception of

the main service connection at the utility company right-of-way and/or any new interconnection

equipment including poles with new easements and right-of-way.
         D. Signage.


                 1) The signage shall be in compliance with ANSI Z535 and shall include the type

 oftechnology associated with the battery energy storage systems, any special hazards, the type of
 suppression system installed in the area of battery energy storage systems and twenty four (24)-
 hour emergency contact information including a reach-back phone number.
                 2) As required by the NEC, disconnect and other emergency shutoff information

 shall be clearly displayed on a light reflective surface. A clearly \risible warning sign concerning
 voltage shall be placed at the base of all pad-mounted transformers and substations.




                                                     8
       E. Lighting. Lighting of the battery energy storage systems shall be limited to that
minimally required for safety purposes, operational purposes, said lighting to be reasonably

shielded and downcast from abutting properties.

       F. Vegetation and tree-cutting. Areas within ten ( 10) feet on. each_side of Tier 2 Battery

Energy Storage Systems shall be cleared of combustible vegetation and combustible growth.

Single specimens of trees, shrubbery, or cultivated ground cover such as green grass, ivy,
succulents or similar plants used as ground covers shall be exemptprovided that they do not

form a means of readily transmitting fire. Removal of trees should be minimi led to the extent
possible.




        G. Noise. The 1- hour average noise generated from the Battery Energy Storage

Systems, components, and associated ancillary equipment shall not exceed a noise level of 60

dBA as measured at the outside wall of any non-participating residence or occupied community

building. Applicants may submit equipment and component manufacturer' s noise ratings to

demonstrate compliance. The applicant may be required to provide Operating Sound Pressure

Level measurements from a reasonable number of sampled locations at the perimeter of the

battery energy storage system to demonstrate compliance with this standard.

        H. Site plan application is to be made to the Albion Planning Board. For a Tier 2 Battery

Energy Storage System requiring a Special Use Permit, site plan approval shall be required. Any
site plan application shall include the following information:

                1) Property lines and physical features, including roads, for the project site.
                2) Proposed changes to the landscape of the site, grading, vegetation clearing,

planting, exterior lighting and screening vegetation or structures.




                                                   9
                3) Name, address and contact information of the proposed or potential system
installer and the owner and/or operator ofthe Battery Energy Storage System. Information ofthe
final system installer shall be submitted prior to the issuance of building permit.

                4) Name, address, phone number and signature ofthe project Applicant as well as
all property owners indicating their consent to the application for use ofthe property for the
Battery Energy Storage System.

                5) Zoning district designation for the parcel( s) of land comprising the project site.
                6) Erosion and sediment control and storm -water management plans prepared to
New York State Department of Environmental Conservation standards, if applicable, and to such
standards as may be established by the Albion Planning Board.
        L Building plan (permit) application is to be made to the Albion Building Department
 after Albion Planning Board approval. For a Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage System, building
 plan approval shall be required. Any building plan application shall include the following .
 information:


                 1) A one- or three -line electrical diagram detailing tie Battery Energy Storage
 System layout, associated components, and electrical interconnection methods, with all National
 Electrical Code compliant disconnects and over -current devices.
                  2) A preliminary equipment specification sheet that documents the proposed

 Battery Energy Storage System components, inverters and. associated electrical equipment that
  are to be installed. A final equipment specification sheet shall be submitted prior to the issuance
  of a building permit.




                                                     10
                3) Name, address and contact information of the proposed or potential system


installer and the owner and/ or operator of the Battery Energy Storage System. information ofthe

final system installer shall be submitted prior to the issuance of building permit.

               4) Name, address, phone number and signature of theproject Applicant as well as

all property owners indicating their consent to the application for use ofthe property for the

battery energy storage system. .

                5) Commissioning Plan. Such plan shall satisfactorily verify that the system and

its associated controls and safety systems are in proper working coadition as set forth in the

Uniform Code. Where commissioning is required by the UnifonnCode, same shall be

conducted by a New York State (NYS) Licensed Professional Engineer after the installation is
complete but prior to final inspection and approval. A corrective action plan shall be developed


for any open or continuing issues that are allowed to be continued after commissioning. A report

describing the results of the system commissioning including the results ofthe initial acceptance

testing required in the Uniform Code shall be provided to the Albion Planning Board and Albion

Building Department prior to final inspection and approval and thereafter maintained at an

approved on- site location.


                6) Fire Safety Compliance Plan. Such plan shall satisfactorily verify that the

system, associated controls and safety systems are in compliancevnththe Uniform Code.

                7) Operation and Maintenance Manual. The plan shall describe continuing

Battery Energy Storage System maintenance, property upkeep, design, construction, installation,

testing and commissioning information, all in conformity with the Uniform Code.




                                                  11
                8) Prior to the issuance of a building permit or final approval by the Albion
Planning Board, but not required as part of the application, engineering documents must be

signed and sealed by a NYS Licensed Professional Engineer.

                9)   Emergency Operations Plan. A copy of the approved Emergency Operations            1

Plan shall be given to the system owner, the local fire department and the local fire code official.

A permanent copy shall also be placed in an approved location to be accessible to facility

personnel, fire code officials and emergency responders. The emergency operations plan shall

include the following information:

                         a. Procedures for safe shutdown, de -energizing, or isolation of equipment

and systems under emergency conditions to reduce the risk of fire, electric shock, and personal

injuries, all to also ensure safe start-up following cessation of emergency conditions.

                         b. Procedures for inspection and testing of associated alarms, interlocks

and controls.




                         c. Procedures to be followed in response to aoti_fications from the Battery

Energy Storage Management System that identify potentially dangerous conditions, including

shutting down equipment, summoning service personnel and providing agreed upon notification

to fire department personnel for potentially hazardous conditions in the event of a system failure.

                         d. Emergency procedures to be followed in ease of fire, explosion, release

of liquids or vapors, damage to critical moving parts or other potentially dangerous conditions.

Procedures can include sounding the alarm, notifying the fire department, evacuating personnel,

de -energizing equipment and/ or controlling or extinguishing the file.
                         e. Response considerations similar to a safety data sheet ( SDS) that will

                                         extinguishment when    an SDS   is not required.
address response safety concerns and
                       f. Procedures for dealing with Battery Energy Storage System equipment
damaged in a fire or other emergency event including maintaining coatact information for
personnel qualified to safely remove damaged Battery Energy Storage System equipment from
the facility.

                       g. Other procedures as determined necessary by Albion to provide for the
safety of occupants, neighboring properties and emergency responders.

                       h. Procedures and schedules for conducting drills of all procedures and

for training local first responders on the contents of the plan and appropriate response

procedures.




                10. An Operating Permit must be issued by the Building Department.

        J. Special Use Permit Standards.


                1) Setbacks. Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systerns shall comply with the

setback requirements of the underlying zoning district for solar fangs as set forth in Albion

Town Code. In the event the Battery Energy Storage System will be used for energy storage in

conjunction with a solar farm, the Battery Energy Storage System mustbe contained within the

perimeter ofthe approved solar farm.

                2) Height. Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems shall comply with the building

height limitations for principal structures of the underlying zoning district.

                3) Fencing Requirements. Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems, including all

mechanical equipment, shall be enclosed by an eight (8) foot-highfence with a self-locking gate

to prevent unauthorized access unless housed in a dedicated -use building and not interfering with

ventilation or exhaust ports.




                                                   13
                  4) Screening and Visibility. Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems shall have
    views minimised from adjacent properties to the extent reasonably practicable using architectural
    features, earth berms, landscaping or other screening methods thatwillhannoni7e with the
    character ofthe property and surrounding area so as not to interfere with ventilation or exhaust
   ports.




     SECTION 9. SAFETY REOUIREYENTS FOR 11 ER 2 BATTERYENERGY STORAGE
                              SYSTEMS (§ 106- 9)



            A. System Certification. Battery Energy Storage Systems and equipment shall be listed
  by a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory to UL 9540 (standardfor Battery Energy Storage
  Systems and equipment) with subcomponents meeting each ofthefollowing standards as
  applicable:




                   1) UL 1973 ( standard for batteries for use in stationary, vehicle auxiliary power,
 and light electric rail applications).

                  2) UL 1642 ( standard for lithinm batteries).

                  3) UL 1741 or UL 62109 (inverters and power converters).

                  4) Certified under the applicable electrical, building, and ire prevention codes as
required.




                 5) Alternatively, field evaluation by an approved testing laboratory for
compliance with UL 9540 and applicable codes, regulations and safety standards may be used to
meet system certification requirements.


        B. Site Access. Battery Energy Storage Systems shall be maintained in good working
order and in accordance with industry standards. Site access shal be maintained, including snow
                                                  14
  removal at a level acceptable to the local fire department and, ifthe Tier 2 Battery Energy
  Storage System is located in an ambulance district, the local ambulance corps. .
          C. Battery Energy Storage Systems, components, and associated ancillary equipment
  shall have required working space clearances and electrical circuitry shall be within
  weatherproof enclosures marked with the environmental rating suitable for the type of exposure
  in compliance with NFPA 70.




            SECTION 10. ABANDONMENT AND DECOMMJSSIONING 0106- 10)


         A. Any Battery Energy Storage System shall be considered abandoned after six (6)

 months without electrical energy storage and must be removed fon the property by applicant,
 the lessees and/ or any successors in interests. Applications for extensions subsequent to such an
 abandonment as described in the previous sentence can be reviewed by the Planning Board for a
period of up to six (6) months after such abandonment.

        B. All applications for any Battery Energy Storage System shall include and be
accompanied by a decommissioning plan to be implemented uponabandonment and/or in
conjunction with the removal of same and shall:


                1) Include the identities ofthe landowner, the applicant, the lessees and/or any
successors in interest including the nal 1-< s), mailing address( es), telephone number(s), emailing
address( es) and written lease( s). At the time ofDecommissioning Plan approval by the Planning
Board, the Decommissioning Plan document is to be executed by the Planning Board
Chairperson, the landowner(s), the applicant(s), the lessees and/ or any successors in interest
acknowledging their approval and consent to same. In the event the applicant intends to sell,


                                                 15
 transfer, convey or assign the solar facility to any third party and/ or successor in interest,
 including any affiliate ofthe applicant, the applicant shall make an application (and pay any
 applicable fees) at least sixty (60) days in advance before any such contemplated sale, transfer,
 conveyance or assignment and no such sale, transfer, conveyance or assiument shall take place

 unless and until approved by the Planning Board. Any such third parry and/ or successor in

 interest to the applicant shall assume the rights and obligations under the Decommissioning Plan
by written acknowledgement of same, the wording of which shall be prepared and/ or approved
by the Planning Board and thereafter be considered the applicant following the date of any such
sale, transfer, conveyance or assignment. As stated hereinabove, the Planning Board shall grant

written approval of any such third party or successor in interest prior tb same occurring and any

such third party, successor in interest and landlord( s) shall executetheDecommissioning Plan.
                2) Demonstrate how the removal of all infrastructure and the remediation of soil

and vegetation shall be conducted to return the parcel to its original state prior to construction.

                3) Include an expected timeline for execution and completion.

                4) Include a detailed cost estimate detailing the projected expense of executing
the Decommissioning Plan to be prepared and signed by a professional engineer or registered
architect.




                5) Obligate the owner, operator and/ or successors in. interest to remove any
                                                                                                       i
installations that have reached the end of their useful life or have been abandoned,
                                                                                        physically     z
remove the installation no more than six ( 6) months after the date ofdiscontinued operations and
                                                                                                       i
also notify Albion by certified mail ofthe proposed date of discontinued operations and the plans
                                                                                                      i
for removal.                                                                                          1
                                                                                                      3i
                                                                                                      1


                                                   16
                6) An obligation to physically remove all Battery Storage Systems, structures, .
equipment, security barriers and transmission lines from the site.

                7) Include an obligation to dispose of all solid and hazardous waste in accordance

with local, state and federal waste disposal regulations.

        C. Absent notice of a proposed date of decommissioning and written notice of

extenuating cirdumstances, any Battery Energy Storage System shall be considered abandoned

when it fails to operate ( as set forth in 10.A. of this Section) for more than six (6) months

without the written consent of Albion. Tithe owner or operator ofany Battery Energy Storage

System fails to remove the installation in accordance with the requireaents of this Section within


six (6) months of abandonment or the proposed date of decommissicnirg, Albion may enter the

property and physically remove the installation upon application to a Court of appropriate

jurisdiction to obtain access to said property for that purpose.

        D. The Decommissioning Plan shall contain a requirement that the landowner, the
applicant, lessees and/ or any successors in. interest provide financia1secarity, the form and

character of which is in the sole discretion of the Board. Financial security shall be in the form

of a bond, surety bond, financial deposit, undertaking, financial en/
                                                                  Dvand/or other financial

security, the amount of which is to be determined by and at the sole d:scretion of said Board, the
spirit and intent of same to ensure that sufficient funds are availableto iemove the installation

and restore landscaping consistent with the best interest of the landaysner and/ or Albion in the

event the applicant fails to comply with decommissioning obligati©ns with same to be annually

reviewed for financial sufficiency (with any decision relating to continued financial sufficiency

also to be in the sole discretion of said Board). The annual review process shall include

providing financial documentation, financial statements or any other information requested. The


                                                   17
 involvement ofany third party or successor in interest as described hereinabove shall
 immediately and automatically trigger the review process set forth in this subparagraph. The

 financial security shall be provided prior to issuance of any Special Ilse Permit and any final Site
 Plan Approval by the Planning Board. Albion shall hold the financial security in the form,
 character and amount mandated by the Board until such time as abandonment occurs, or if the

 project should not proceed for any reason prior to the start of consfuction and, if so, all unused

 portions of said financial security shall be released back to the.applicant (with any accrued
 interest ifapplicable) and approval ofthe project shall be automatically rescinded.
         E. A copy fthe Decommissioning Plan shall be filled in the Orleans County Clerk' s
Office in the register of deeds and indexed by the landowner' s name upon approval of same.


                         SECTION 11. PERiVIIT TLME FRAME 0106- 111



        The special use permit and site plan approval for a Battery Energy Storage System shall
be valid for a period oftwenty four (24) months, provided that a building permit is issued for
construction and/ or construction is commenced. In the event construction is not completed in

accordance with the final site plan, as may have been amended and approved, as required by the
Albion Planning Board, within twenty four (24) months after approval, Albion may extend the
time to complete construction for one hundred eighty ( 180) days. Iftile owner and/ or operator

fails to perform substantial construction after thirty six (36) months, the approvals shall expire.



                            SECTION 12. ENFORCEMENT (4106- 12)




                                                  18
        Any violation of this Battery Energy Storage System law shall be subject to the same
enforcement requirements, including the civil and criminal penalties, provided for in sections of

the Albion Town Code pertaining to zoning and/ or land use regulations.

                            SECTION 13. SEVERABILITY & 106- 131



        The invalidity or unenforceability of any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause,

provision, or phrase ofthe aforementioned sections, as declared by the validjudgment of any

court of competentjurisdiction to be unconstitutional, shall not affect the validity or

enforceability of any other section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, provision, or phrase,

which shall remain in full force and effect.




                          SECTION 14. EFFECTIVE DATE 0106-14.)




       This Local Law shall take effect upon the date it is filed in. the Office of the New York


State Secretary of State in accordance with the Municipal Home Rule Law §27.



Dated: Albion, New York

                            204




                                                 19
                    RESOLUTION ADOPTING LOCAL LAW #3 OF 2026
                     AMENDING CHAPTER 106 — BATTERY ENERGY
                    STORAGE SYSTEMS OF THE ALBION TOWN CODE



WHEREAS       the Albion Town Board has determined it to be in the best interests of the
              Town of Albion for amendments to be made to Chapter 106 of the Albion
              Town Code concerning Battery Energy Storage Systems; and

WHEREAS       a duly advertised Public Hearing vas held by the Albion Town Board at the
              Town Hall, 3665 Clarendon Road, Albion, New York, on December 22, 2025;
              and




WHEREAS       all persons requesting to be heard \ vere heard and due deliberation ha\ in g been
              had thereon.



NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:



Section 1.    The Albion Town Board does hereby adopt Local Law #9 of 2025 Amending
              Chapter 106 of the Albion Town Code concerning Battery Energy Storage
              Systems.


Section 2.    The Albion Town Clerk is authorized and directed to file a complete copy of
              Local Law #9 of 2025 with the Secretary of State as required by law.

Section 3.    This Resolution shall take effect immediately.


MOTION for adoption of this Resolution by
            Seconded by


VOTE BY ROLL CALL AND RECORD:



              Board Member Allen
              Board Member Bensley
              Board Member Benton
              Board Member Wilbert
              Supervisor Remley


tiubmitted   December 22, 2025
                                                     Full BriviroranentalAssessment Fora
                                                             Part 1- Project and Setting
 Instructions for Completing Part 1

 Part 1 is to be completed by the appliccant or project sponsor. Responses become part of the appfi                       an for approval or funding,
 are subject to public review, and may be subject to further verification.
 Complete Part 1 based on information currently available. Ifadditional research or investiiatian would be needed to fully respond to
 any item, please answer as thoroughly as possible based on current information; indicate wether missing information does not exist,
 or is not reasonably available to the sponsor; and, whenpossible, generally describe work it Mies did would be necessary to
 update orfully develop that information.

Applicants/sponsors must complete all items in Section,s A & B. In Sections C, D & B, mat items contain an initial question that
must be answered either " Yes" or "No". Ifthe answer to theinitial question is " Yes", complete the sub•gnestions that follow. Mire
answer to the initial question is "No", proceed to the next questioli. Section i+allows thepcject spoor to identify and attach any
additional information. Section G requires the name and signatriire ofthe applicant or projetsponsorto verify that the information
q9i1t014 in Part, lis accurate arid ooinplete,

    P oleo , and Applica Isponsor Inrormation.
NabieXAdtionlbrPioject:• .. - • • • • , -
rowa.ofAlbion Town Code Updates: Chapters 105 and 106Aniendments and Chapter 103 Proposed Ixen6reZonh9
Project Looniion ( descrtlie, and attach a•geneial location nap): •• •• • • •
U!IAO holdings within the incorporated boundary of the! 'NMI
BriefDescription ofProposed Adtion (r iclude purpose or need): -
or theTown of Albion, the proposed amendments to existing ahapter105: Solar Energy.Systems and.SolarEnergy Fauns and Chapter 106 Battery
anergy Storage Systems are in response to the moratorium thatrtas establish in relation to Solar and Weil En rSystems. Additionally, Chapter 103
Zoning)..of file Town Code is being updated with a new section entitled 'Incentive Zoning'. The proposel Code Updates will further support the future
evelopment of renewable energy projects, while providingincentives for future and redevelopment v li theTown ofAlbion.




Name ofApplicant/Sponsor: •                                                                      Telephone: 085)5894048 .. . .
own ofAlbion Town BoardE-
                        Masupxveor@townofalbion. com
Address: 59 Henry Street
City/PO: Albion• •                                                                                        i' wYork                     Code: 14411
Prbject`Contact (if not same as sponsor,give frame and title/role):                              Teleplim.e: P85)589-7048 • • •
 Pilchard Remley                                                                                 E -Ma •• •svpa fsm townofalbion.com
Address:



City/PO: -                                                                                       State:                            Zip Code:

                                                                                                 TeI       c, e:
Property Owner ( ifnot same as sponsor):


A.ddress:


City/ PO:                                                                                      I Slate:                           I Zip Code:
                                                                      Page 1 of 1;
                                                                         A




                                                                                                                                     FEAF 2019
 B. Government Approvals

 B. •Government Approvals, Funding, or Sponsorship. (` Fundin" includes grants; loans, fax rade, and any other forms of uncial
         assistance.)•

                               Government Entity                                                                                                                                                                 Application
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Date
                                                                                                      If Yes: Identify Agency and Approval()
                                                                                                                                      Required                                                                 Actual or projected)


 a. City Counsel, TovmBoard, Mi Yes* No                                                             Town Boacr- Adoption                                                                     June 9,2025 ( SEQR Intent)
       or Village Board ofTrustees                                                                                                                                                           Jutj 14225 (Public Hearing; LL)
 b. City, Town or Village [      1YesONo
    Planning Board or Commission
 c. City, Town or             DYesENo
       Village Zoning Board of Appeals
d. Other local agencies                                                 Yes iNo

e.
      County agencies • _                                               Yes0No                      Monroe County Planning Board - County Ream! TED
i Regional agencies                                               DYes No.


g. State agencies                                                 QYesMNo

13. Federal agencies '                                             IIYes             No

i. Coastal Resources.
      1. Is the project site within a Coastal Area, or the waterfront area of a Designated InlandWatercray?                                                                                                                        Yes ENO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Yes0No
     ii. Is the project site located in a community with an approved Local Waterfront RevitaationPrc                                                                                                        arn? •

  ill. Is the project site withina Coastal Erosion Hazard Area?                                                                                                                                                                  a Yes.•*.tNo



C: Planning and Zoning

C.1. Planning and zoning actions.
Will administrative or legislative adoption, or amendment ofa plan, local law, ordinance, rule or re; iation be the                                                                                                              i YesDNo

only approval(s) which must be granted to enable the proposed action to prodded?
         4         ifYes, complete sections C, F and G.
         o         If Ijro, proceedto question C2 and complete all remaining sections and questions h Part 1
C.2. Adopted•land use.plans.

a. Do any municipally- adopted ( city, town, village'or county) comprehensive land useple(s) inchds the site                                                                                                                     NYes           No
     where the proposed action would be located?
if Yes; does the comprehensive plan include specific recd; nnzendations for the site where tle proposed action                                                                                                                     Yes •Yes •   NoNo
wo-ald be located? . •
     IsIs thethe sitesi. te . ofof thethe proposed'proposed' actionaction withinwithin anyany locallocal oror regionalregional specialspecial planningplanning districtdi( strict ( forfor example:example: Greenway;Greenway;        YestEINo YestEINo

      Brownfield Brownfield OpportunityOpportunity Area (Area ( BOA);BOA); designateddesignated StateState oror FederalFederal heritageheritage area;area; watershedwatershed roarageneatplan;roarageneatplan;
     oror Other?) '
               Other?)
                    . '.
ff Yes,Yes, identifyidentify thethe plan(plan( s)s): :• '• '



     Is the proposed action Iodated wholly or paitially within an area listed in an adopted municipal o?eh space plan,                                                                                                             YesZNoYesZNo
      or an adopted municipal farmland protection plan?
f Yes, identify the plan( s):




                                                                                                                        Page 2 of 13
         i... Lolling


        a. Is the•site ofthe proposed action located in amunicipality with an adopted zoning law .0 or.dime.                                                                                                                                  YesDNo

        IfYes, what is thhe.zonmg classification(s) including any applicable overlay district?
               A. riatiiraIResidential A/R Residential (R -i GeneralBushe,ss : Licht I. • ustria Plaruwdtnd                                                                                                      mercialDeveto• mentD' '•

               Cabe! Ouertaay District; (C), Waste Management Facility Overly District and Flood Hazard Overby lis7ki
        b. Is the izse permitted or allowed by a special or conditional use pewit?                                                                                                                                                           Yes           No

       c. Is a zoning change requested as part ofthe proposed, action?                                                                                                                                                                  II YesgINo
       If Yes, •
          L What is the proposed new zoning for the site?
       C.4. Existing community services.
       a.•In whatschool district is the project site located? Albion Central School District
          t ;
       i•':                 r •




   be What poiicce,or other.public protection forces serve the projectsite? • '.                                                                                                                                                                           l• ;• '•'
        i ... ens County Sherir?a Orifice • .New York State P Icp illaae oFA tori Police Denarhnent
   C. Which.:ftre protection 44 eniergency medical services serve 'the project site..
       Alblon Vhteeroitihie bepattment .• . ' • .

 d. What parks serve the projectsite? . .•



         p. rojectDetails
 D.I. Proposed and Potential Development .

a.a. WhatWhat isis thethe generalgeneral naturenature ofof thethe proposedproposed action (action ( e.e. g.,g., residential,residential, industrial,industrial, comtnercia,comtnercia, recreational;recreational; ifif nixed,nixed, includeinclude al al
          components)? .
                    components)? .



b.b. a,a, TotalTotal acreageacreage ofof thethe sitesite ofof thethe proposedproposed action?action?                                                                                     teresteres

         b. Total' acreage to be physically disturbed? . • :                                                                                                                             acres

         c. Total'acreage (project site and any contiguous properties) owned .
              or controlled               by the applioarit:dr project sponsor?                                                                                               0          aures

c. Is the proposed action an expansion of an                                                                                                                                                                                           1 YesDNo
                                                                                              existing project cruse? • -
         z IfYes, what is the approximate percentage ofthe proposed expansion and identify thenriits ( e.g_, acres, miles, housing units,
           square feet)?. %                                        Units:
ii IsIs thethe proposedproposed actionaction aa subdivision,subdivision, oror doesdoes itit includeinclude aa subdivision? • •
                                                                                                                         subdivision? • •                                                                                             DyesDyes DNoDNo
 fYes,• .
     fYes,•
          •. . •.
        LL PurposePurpose ortype.ortype. ofof subdivision? (subdivision? ( e.e. g.,g., residential,residential, industrial,industrial, commercial;commercial; ifif mixed,mixed, spedfyspedfy types)types)
       ILIL IsIs aa chis-chis-ter/ter/ conservationconservation layoutlayout proposed?proposed?                                                                                                                                       lilieslilies DD oo
 iii.iii. NumberNumber ofof lotslots proposed? •
                                             proposed? •
       iv. Minimum and maximum proposed lot sizes? Minimurn                                                                                               Maximum

3.3.     WillWill thethe proposedproposed actionaction bebe constructedconstructed inin multiplemultiple phases'?phases'?                                                                                                                  YesDNoYesDNo
   L.L. IfIf No,No, anticipated anticipated periodperiod ofof construction:construction:                                                                                               ninthsninths

ti. If Yes:
             e        Total number ofphases anticipated '
             O        Anticipated commencement date of phase 1( including demolition)                                                                                                  non&                   year

             66       AnticipatedAnticipated completioncompletion datedate ofof finalfinal phasephase                                                                                  nodsnods             yearyear

             00       General yGeneral y describedescribe connectionsconnections oror relationshipsrelationships amongamong phases,phases, includingincluding anyany confngeaciesconfngeacies wherewhere progressprogress ofof oneone phasephase maymay
                      determine determine tithingtithing oror durationduration ofof futurefuture phases:phases:




                                                                                                                           Page 3 of 13
 L Does the project include new residential uses?                                                                                      Yes 0 o
 If Yes, show numbers ofunits proposed. . •
                           One Family        T<                                           Multiple arir7v ffoaror
                                              no
                                                 Family           Three Family

 initial Khasi} . ' : •• •' ' . - _'
 At completion ._ . , _ .          0 . • .




   of all phases .



g. Does the proposed action include new non-residential construction ( including expansions)?                                        II Yrs 1 No
If Yes,
   1. Total number of structures -
  it Dimensions ( in feet) of largest proposed structure: .                 height;           width;   ad                   length
 iiz Approximate extent of building space to be heated or cooled:                                           square feet •

h. Does the proposed action include construction or other activities that will result in the i'         onidmeat of          any       Yes   No

  liquids; such as creation of a water supply, reservoir, pond, lake, waste lagoon or other storage?
16Yes,. •
  7. 'Purpose of the imporidinent:
 ii If a water impoundment,the principal source of the water. •                       0 Ground waterDS•ur5.ce wafer streams            Other specify:

iii, ifothertlianwater, identify the type ofimpounded/contained liquids and their source. .
    Appro timate size of thepropdsed' impbundrnent.
 iy_..                                                            Volume:                     niilliangatlons;   sect area: .--.                   s

   Dimension's of the proposed dam or
 v °                                          impounding   structure: • •               height; '           ez gih

vi Construction method/materials for the proposed dam or impounding structure ( e.g., each fill, rook, wood, concrete):


D.2. Project dperations

a. Does the proposed action include any excavation, mining, Or dredging, during boinstthction, operations, or both? NY
    Mali:chiding geheiirl site preparation, grading or installation of utilities or foundationsv1ete all excavated
  materials will remain onsite)
If Yes: • '

  i .What is the purpose ofthe excavation or dredging? '
ii. How much material (including rock; earth, sediments, etc.) is proposed to be removed fiorn the site?
        m'   Volume (specify tons or cubic yards):
             Over what duration oftime? • '
fit. Describe nature and characteristics of materials to be excavated or dredged,•and plans Louse, mange or dispose ofthem.


 iv. Will there be onsite dewatering or processing of excavates materials?                                                           1 Yes l No
        If yes, describe.

 v.•What is the total area to be dredged or excavated?                                                               ages

vi.   What is tie maximum area to be worked at any one time? •                                                       acres

viL What would be the maximum          depth  of excavation or   dredging?                                           feet
viii.   Will the excavation i equire blasting?                                                                                       DYesDNo
t Summarize site reclamation goals and plan: .




i. Would the proposed action cause or result in alteration of       increase or decrease in size o f or encroachment '                Yes[] No
   into any existing wetland, waterbody, shoreline, beach or adjacent area?
f Yes: •
  L Identify the wetland or waterbody which would be affected (by name, water index number, wetiani map number or geographic
    description):




                                                                   Page 4 of 13
  IL Describe how the proposed action would affect that waterbody or wetland, e.g. excavafion,Fill, phcernent ofstmetureee, or
     alteration of channels, banks and shorelines. Indicate extent ofactivities, alterations and additions in square feetoracres:



 iii.Will the proposed action cause or result in disturbance to bottom sediments?
                                                                                                                            12Yes      o

      If Yes, describe:
                                                                                                                               Yes    No
  iv. Will the proposed action cause or result in the destruction or removal of aquatic vegetation?
      If Yes:
       o     acres of aquatic vegetation proposed to be removed:
       o     expected acreage of aquatic vegetation remaining afrer project completion:
       e     purpose of proposed removal ( e. g.    beach cieering, invasive species control, boat access):


       0     proposed mefnod ofplant removal: " • •

       0     if chemical/herbicide treatinent will be used, specify product(s): •
 v. Describe any proposed reclamation/mitigation following disturbance:

                                                                                                                               Yes CNo
c. Will the proposed action use; •or create a new demand for -water? '

If Yes:.- • •
  L Total anticipated water usage/ demand per day:                                                 gaibns/day • '
 IL Will the proposed action obtain water from an existing public water supply?
                                                                                                                               Yes,D O •
f Yes:
       e'   Name of district or service area •
       C    Does the existing iublic water supply have capacity to serve the proposal?                                       1 Yes II No
                                                                                                                                Yes   No
      e     Is the project site m the existing district?
            Is expansion of the district needed? -                                                                           D Yes    No
                                                                                                                             IIYes    No
      o     Do existing lines serve the project site?
iii. Will line extension within an existing district be necessary to supply the project?                                       Yes O1°
f Yes: •
      e     Describe extensions or capacity expansions proposed to serve this project:

      e      Sonrce( s) of supply for the district: - '
                                                                                                                               YesDNo
 iv. Is a new water supply district or service area proposed to be formed to serve the
                                                                                                 project site?


f, Yes:' •
       ED   Applicant/sponsor for new district:- •
      e      Date application submitted or anticipated: •
      eProposed source(s) of supply for new district: • •
  v. a public water supply will not be used, describe plans to provide water supply for theprojeet
    If

                                                                                                                    gallonshrimute.
      If water supply will be from wells (public or private), what is the                 pumping capacity:
                                                                              maximum
vi.

                                                                                                                               Yes CNC
d. Will the proposed action generate liquid wastes? • - '
If Yes: .
 L Total anticipated liquid waste generation per day:                               gallons/day
 IL Nature ofliquid wastes to be generated (e.g., sanitary wastewater, industrial; if combination, describe all components and
      approicumate volumes or proportions ofeach):




                                                                         treatment facilities?                                 Yes Digo
iii. Will the proposed action use any existing public wastewater
      If Yes:
      o      Name of wastewater treatment plant to be used:
      e      Name of district:
                                                                              to serve the project?                            YesDNo
      o      Does the existing wastewater treatment plant have capacity
                                                                                                                               YesDNo
      o      Is the project site in the existing district?
                                                                                                                             0YesDNo
      o      Is expansion of the district needed?




                                                                     Page 5 of 13
                Do existing sewer lines serve the project site?                                                                    YesDNo
           a     Will a line extension within an existing district be                                                              Yes    No
                                                                        necessary to serve the • *
                                                                                               project?
                If Yes: • •

                  0 Describe extensions or capacity expansions proposed to serve this project: ••

 iv. Will a new wastewater ( sewage) treatment district be formed to serve                                                         Yes I No
                                                                                      the project site?
       If Yes:
           o     Applicant/sponsor for new district: •
           o     Date application subm`:ted or anticipated:
     o      What is the receiving water for the wastewater discharge?
 v. If public facilities will not be used, describe plans to pro -vide wastewater treatment for to pbject, including specifying proposed
       receiving water ( name and classification if surface discharge or describe subsurface diposzl plas):


vL Describe any plans or designs to capture, recycle or reuseiiquid waste: .



e.   Will the preposed action disturb more than one acre and create stormwater runoff, eith&ifrom neripoint                       DYes   No

     sources.(i.e. ditches, pipes, s:vales, curbs, gutters or other concentrated flows ofstormwater) oinon-pont
      so rpe.'(i.e. slmeet flow) during construction or post construction?
If Yes: ..
 L How much inipetvious surface will the project create in                      to total size ofproject Taxed?
                         Square feet or         acres ( impervious suface) •
                         Square feet or •       acres ( parcel size)
ii. Describe types ofnew point sources.

iii. Where will the stormwater runoff be directed (Le. on-site stormwater management facuty/stn:ctires, adjacent properties,
       groundwater, on-site surface water or off-site surface waters)?




       a        If to surface waters, identify receiving water bodies or wetlands: •


       O . "'    Till stormwater runoff flow to adjacent properties? •                                                             Yes III No
iv. Does the proposed plan minimise impervious surfaces, use pervious materials or collectandre-use stommwater? 1 Yes                    No
f. Does the proposed action include, or will it Use on- site, one or more sources of air emissons, including fuel                  Yes   No
     combustion, waste incineration, or other processes or operations? .
If Yes, identify:
  1. Mobile sources during project operations (e.g., heavy equipment, fleet or delivery vehicles) •

 ii. Stationary sources during construction (e.g., power generation, structural heating, batccplaut, crushers)

iii. Stationary sources during operations ( e.g., process emissions, large boilers, electric generation)

                                                                            a NY State Air Registratica,   Air Facility Permit,    Yes ONo
g. Will any air emission sources named in D.2. f (
                                                 above), require

     or Federal Clean Air Act Title W or Title V Permit?
If Yes:
i. Is the project site located in an Air quality non -attainment area? ( Area routinely or periodically fails to meet              YesDNo

     ambient air quality standards for all or some parts of the year)
IL In addition to emissions as calculated in the application, the project will generate:
       9                      Tons/year (short tons) of Carbon Dioxide (CO2)
       0 •
                              Tons/ year (short tons) ofNitrous Oxide (N20)
       0
                              Tons/ year (short tons) of Perfluorocarbon, (PFCs)
       0
                              Tons/year (short tons) of Sulfur Hexafluoride ( SF6)
       O                      Tons/year. (short tons) ofCarbon Dioxide equivalent of Hydroflourocarbons (FIFCs)
       0
                              Tons/ year (short tons) of Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPS)


                                                                        Page 66 of
                                                                                of 1313
 h. Will the proposed action generate or emit methane (                                                              t pants,                Yes   No
                                                                   mcltading, but not limited to, #sewaga reaimer>
       land; , 115, composting facilities)?
 If Yes: '
      L Estimate methane generation in tons/year (metric): • •
  Il. Describe      any methane capture, control or elimination measures included in project (                 e_ g.,r,ariiu; tion to generate heat or
        elechicit', ?      g)


 L Will the proposed action result in the release ofair
                                                               pollutants from open- air operations aptccesP4           5141 as        DYesEiNo
      quarryor landfill operations?
 IfYes: Describe operations and nature of emissions ( e.g, diesel exhaust, rock particulateslivst):


j. Will the proposed action result in a substantial increase ia traffic above present levels            orgeneratestbstaafal []              YesDNo

      nein demand for transportation facilities or services? .
If Yes:,:• ..
  L Wheih is the peak traffic expected ( Check all that
                                                               apply):        Morning •              Evenhg         D\ Yeekesid•
             Randoprly betweenhours; of • .. •            to • .

  ii.Forcomniercialactivitiesonly, projectednumber oftrucktrips/day and type (a.g.,ser7ihalusaed&amptricks):.: • • ..

 iii.Parking
      -      spaces: 7.:,       EXisting : ... . "                    Proposed .. . •                Netirrease/deQese• • . .• .:: ..... •
  ii .Does theproposed action include
                                                any shared use panting?                                                                DYesDNo
 v •Iffhepr•oposed action inchrdes•anymodification. of existingroads, creation ofnewroads c cbn ein existing access, describe:
vi. Are public/private transportation service( s) or facilities available within % mile of the Tropes edsle? [                           Fes' No
vii Will the proposed action include access to public transportation or accommodations foruseoflyldd, electric                         fjYes9No
       or otl}er alternative fueled vehicles?
viii..Will the proposed action include plans for pedestrian or bicycle accommodations for e`vunaectioasto existing                     DYes No
       pedestrian or bicycle routes?



k. Will the proposed action ( for commercial or industrial projects only) generate new or add'tticeal deaaad                                 Yes   No

   for energy?
If Yes:
 E Estimate annual electricity demand during operation ofthe proposed action: .
iL Anticipated soitrceslsuppliers of electricity for the project (e.g., on-site combustion, on-site renewshle, via grid/Iocal utility, or
      others): ••




iii Win the proposed action require a new, or ah upgrade; to an existing substation? • [                                                     Yes   No



L Idours of operation. Answer• all items which apply.
  i   During Contin ction:                                                 IL During Operations: •
       0
              Monday - Friday:                                                0    Monday - Friday:
       o
              Saturday:                                                       0    Saturday:
       0 .
              Sunday:. . '                                                     0     Sunday: • . •
       0      Holidays:                                                        e    Holidays:




                                                                       Page 7 of 13
 m. Will the proposed action produce noise                                                                     corstaa: tbn,   0 Yes ONo
                                                  that will exceed
                                                                      existing ambient noise levels drr' ing
     operation, or both?
 Ifyes:
 L Provide details including sources, time ofday and dliratiot-

 if. Will the proposed action remove
                                           existing natural barriers that could act as a noise barrio- orssren?                0 Yes DNo
    Describe:


n: Will the proposed action have outdoor
                                                 lighting?                                                                       Yes     No
 Ifyes:

 L Describe source(s), location(s), height offixture( s), direction/ aim, and proximity to nearest cceupird Mutates:

if. Will proposed action remove existing natural barriers that could act as a light barrier orscreu-2                          1 Yes DNo
    Describe: .. • '



O. Does the proposed action have the potential to produce od- s for more than one hour perdag                    D Yes DST°
    IfYes, describe possible sources, potential frequencyand duration of odor emissions,"a cliaxinlytonearest ' • "
    occupied structures:.. .




p. Will the proposed action include any bulk storage' ofpetroleum (combined capacity of offer 1, I.(
                                                                                                   Ogallons)                   D Yes DNo
  or chemical products 185 gallons in above ground storage or any amount in underground storage?
if'Yes: ' .
 L Product(s) to be stored
ii. Volun ie( s)               per unit time (                e.g., month, year) ;
ii. Generally, describe theproposed storage facilities: •

a. Will the proposed action ( commercial, industrial and recreational projects only) use pesticides (. e., he bicides,           Yes [   No
   insecticides) during Consbniction or operation? .
1ffYes:
   L. Describe proposed treatment( s):




 IL . Will the proposed action use Integrated Pest Management Practices?                                                       0 Yes DNo
 Will the proposed action (commercial or industrial projects only) involve or require the nanagerrent or disposal              0 Yes DNo
  of solid waste ( deluding hazardous materials)? . .
f Yes: .
 L Describe any solid waste(s) to be generated during construction or operation ofthe facilty.
     e     Construction: : _                            tons per .. (                      unit ofdone)
     s     Operation :                                   tons per (                        unit oftime)

 if. Describe any proposals for on-site minimization, recycling or reuse ofmaterials to avoM disposal as solid waste:
     o Construction: .

     G     Operation: •


11. Proposed disposal methods/ facilities for solid waste generated on- site: •
     0     Oonstructioir:


     O     Operation:




                                                                      Page 8 of 13
       s. Does the proposed action include construction or modification' ofa solid waste manage nt fecal-ill                                                                             II Yes 1 No
       If Yes:. ' . .

          1. ' Type•ofmanagement      or fondling of waste proposed *for the site (e.g., recycling or travfers ‘
               other disposal activities):
                                                                                                                                                                           canpoting, landfill,   or




         it. Anticipated rate ofdisposal/ processing:
               n • •
                                                 Tons/month, iftransfer or other non-combustion/thermal treatment, or
               0 . • .. •
                                                 Tons/hour, ifcombustion or thermal treatment
        iii. If landfill, anticipated site life:
                                                                                                                                                    years


    t. Will the proposed action at the site involve the commercial generation, treamient, storm, ordspaalofhazardous l Yesl] No
          waste?

  If.Yes: -

         i.Name( s) of all hazardous wastes or constituents to be generated, handled or managed d facility:


       ii. Generally describe processes or activities involving hazardous wastes or constituents: -

       iii. Specify -amount tole handled or generated                                                      tons/month . ..
       EV. De'sc'ribe any ptbposals fof on:site minimization, recycling or reuse ofhazardous cons.`tueat:


  v. Will any hazaMous wastes be disposed at an existing oft ite hazardous waste facility?                                                                                                Yes      No
If Yes: provide name and location of facility:

IfNo: desdribe proposed management of any hazardous wastes which will not he sent to nhazrdonscvvie facility:


 E. Site and Setting of mi•oposed Action

    E.1: Land uses on and surrounding the project site
a. Existing Land uses. - • ;
         i. Check all uses thatoccur on, adjoining and near the project
                                                                project site.
                                                                        site.

          Urban        Industrial      Commercial         Residential suburban)suburban)                                                               Rural (noa-fam)
QQ Forest .Forest .                     Agriculture Agriculture      Aquatic Aquatic              OtherOther specify):specify):
       ii.ii. IfIf mixmix ofof uses;uses; general ygeneral y describe:describe:


b. Land uses and covertypes on the project site. -
                                                   LandLand useuse oror                                                           Current Current                Acreage After             Change

                                                    CovertypeCovertype                                                            AcreageAcreage               Project Completion         Acres T/-)

oo           Roads,Roads, buildings, -
                                   buildings, - andand otherother pavedpaved oror imperviousimpervious
             sui-sui-facesfaces
6"6"         Forested ' 'Forested ' '
0•           Meadows, grasslands or brushlands ( non-
             agricultural, including abandoned agricultural)
0            Agricultural•
               includes active orchards, field, greenhouse etc.)
o * Surface water features
               takes; ponds, streams, rivers, etc.)

e • Wefiands (freshwater or tidal)
6           Non -vegetated ( bare rock, earth or fill)

0            Other
            Describe:




                                                                                                                  Page 9 of 13
                                                                                                                                  I Yes II No
c. Is the project site presently used by member ofthe corarnunity for public recreation?
   i.If Yes: explain:
d. Are there any facilities serving children,       the elderly, people with disabilities ( e.g., schocls, bs5pit)-13, licensed   1 Yes 1 No

   day care centers, or group homes) within 1500 feet of the project site?
If Yes,
   i. Identify Facilities:


                                                                                                                                  1 Yes 1 No
e. Does the project site contain an existing dam?
If Yes: •
   L Dimensions of the dam and impoundment:
            o      Dam height:                                                            feet
            e
                   Dan length:                                                            feet
            G•     Surface area:                                                          acres

            o .    Volume impounded:                                               gallons OR acre-feet
 ii. Dam's existing haz rd classification: .
  iii Provide date and summarize results of last inspection: .



                                                                                                                                  1 YesElNo.
f.Has the project site ever been used as a municipal, commercial or industrial solid waste man: geme_t facility,
   or does the project site adjoin property which is now, or vas at one time, used as a solidwastereara emeatfacility?
If Yes: ' 1: •
                                                                                                                                    Yes   No
  L, Has the facility been formally closed? -
       C.         Ifyes, cite sources/ documentation:

 ii. Describe the location of the project site relative to the bomdaries of the solid waste maiagernentfacility:


iii. Describe any development constraints due to the priors olid waste activities: •

                                                            and/ or disposed of at the site, or does theprojectsite adjoin        1 YesDN0
g: Have hazardous wastes been generated, treated
   property which is now or was at one time used to commercially treat, store and/ or dispo e ofhazarloas waste?
If Yes:
 i.Describe Waste( s) handled and waste management activities, including approximate Erne when athvities occurred:


                                                                                                                                    Yell No
h. Potential contamination history. Has there been areported spill at the proposed projectsite, or have any
    remedial actions been conducted at or adjacent to the proposed site?
If Yes:.
                                                                                                                                    YesDNo
   L Is any portion of the site listed on the NYSDEC Spills incidents database or Environnntal Site
     Remediation database? Check all that apply:
             Yes      Spills Incidents database •                           Provide DEC ID number( s):
                      Environmental Site Remediation database               Provide DEC ID number( s):
    o Yes
    0 Neither database
ii. If site has been subject of RCRA corrective activities, describe control measures:


                                                                                                                                    YesDNo
 iii. Is the project within 2000 feet of any site in the NYSDEC Environmental Site Remediation database?
If yes, provide DEC lD number( s):

 iv. If yes to ( i), ( ii) or (iii) above, describe current status of site( s):




                                                                       Page 10 of 13
                                                                                                                             1 YesDNo
     v. Is the project site subject to an institutional control lirniiT.ug property uses?
                                                                         0 -




         0     If yes, DEC site ID number:
         a     Describe the type of institutional control (e. g., deed restriction or easement):
         o     Describe any.uselimitations:
         o:    Describe any engineering controls:
                                                                                                                             II YesDNo
         o     Will the project affect the institutional or engineering controls in place?
         o     Explain: .




E. 2. Natural Resources On or Near Project Site -

a.    What is the average depth to bedrock on the project site?                                             flet

                                                                                                                               YesDNo
b.. Are there bedrock outcroppings on the project site? .
IfYes; vliat proportion ofthe site is comprised of bedrock outcroppings?

c. Predominant soiltype(s) present on project site: •


d. What is the average depthto the water table on the project site? Average: • %                          et•



e. Drainage status ofproject site soils: t       Well Drained: %                                of site
                                                 Moderately Well Drained: %                     of site


                                                 Poorly Drained %                               of site


                                                                               0- 10%: %                           of site
f.Approximate proportion of proposed action site with slopes:
                                                                               10- 15%: %                          of Site
                                                                        0 15% or greater: %                        of site

                                                                                                                               YesDNo
g..Are there any unique geologic features on the project site?
If Yes, describe:



h. Surface water features.
                                                                                                                               Yes   No
      Does any portion ofthe project site contain wetlands or other waterbodies ( including sheaf, rivers,
     ponds or lakes)?
                                                                                                                               YesDNo
 ti. Do anywetlands or other waterbodies adjoin the project site? . •
If Yes to either i or it, continue. IfNo, skip to E.2. i.
                                                                                                                               Yes   No
iii. Are any ofthe wetlands or waterbodies within or adjoining the project site regulated by any federal,
                                                                                            0




       state or local agency?

iv. For each identified regulated wetland and waterbody on the project site, provide the folowing information:
                                   NameClassification
         o      Streams:
               Lakes or Ponds:     Name • - .                                                             Classification
         0 •
               Wetlands:           Name •                                                                 Approximate Size

               Wetland No. (if regulated by DEC) .
                                                                                                                             1 Yes DNo
v. Are any of the above water bodies listed in the most recent compilation of NYS water grality-impaired
      waterbodies?

If yes, name of      impaired water body/bodies and basis for listing as impaired:

                                                                                                                             LYesDNo
i. Is the project site in a designatedFloodway? •
                                                                                                                               Yes   No
j. Is the project site in the 100year Floodplain?
k. Is the project site in the 500 year Floodplain?                                                                             YesDNo
                                                                                                                             DYes    No
1. Is the project site located over, or immediately adjoining, a primary, principal or sole soya aquifer?
If Yes:
     L Name of aquifer




                                                                    Page 11 of
                                                                            of 13
  M. Identify the predominant wildlife species that occupy or use the project site:


                                                                                                                          YesDNo
 n. Does.the project sitz contain a designated sigaificant aanzal community?
 If Yes:

   1. Describe the habitat/community (composition, function, and basis for designation):
  ii. Source( s) of description or evaluation: . -
  iii. Extent of communityfnabitat;
      o
            Currently:                                                                       acres

      o
            Following completion of project as proposed:                                     acres

      e,    Gain or loss ( indicate _ or -): .                                              acres



                                                                                                                          Yes9No
 Q. Does project' site contain any species ofplant or animal t-h=t is listed by the federal goverrm at orNYS es'"
   endangered or threatened, or does it contain any areas identifed as habitat for an endan red or thiea:eLed species?
 If Yes: .. . _
  i. Species and listing nd; ngered or threatened): '



                                                                                                                         Yes   No.
p. Does.the project site contain any species ofplant or animal that is listed by NYS as rate, .cr as a sracies of
   special concern?

 If Yes:
  L Species and listing: '



q. Is the project site or adjoining area currently used for hunting, trapping, fishing or shell fishing?                 Fes ]INo.

If yes, give a briefdescription ofhow the proposed action may affect that use:


E.3. Designated Public Resources Oxi or Near Project Site
a. Is the project site, or any portion of it, located in a designated agricultural district certind persuantto •         YesDNo
   Agriculture and Markets Law, Article 25- AA, Section 303 and 304?
If Yes, provide county plus district namelnurnber:
b. Are agricultural lands consisting ofhighly productive soils present?                                                  YesDNo
  L If Yes: acreage( s) on project site?
  ii. Source(s) ofsoil rating(s):•
c. Does the project site contain all or part of, or is it substantially contiguous to, a registered National             Yes   No
   Natural Landmark?
If Yes:
  1. Nature of the natural landmark:             1 Biological Community                GeologicalFeat-re
  ii. Provide brief description of landmark, including values behind designation and approximate size'exteat:



d. Ts the project site located in or does it adjoin a state listed Critical Environmental Area?                      DYes      No
If Yes:
  i. CEA name:
  ii. Basis for designation:
 ill. Designating agency and date: .




                                                                Paye 12 of 13
 e. Tioe4    01414 Ot.P' Witt*                                    IX. is It                                                            a:lite, or ditrict -
                                                                                     WIStailliAttie$;4110:911:$ 100 0.41114 4411g.Kogic*.                               cjirorl /Jo
       171Ach is .4s.•RA 44.* IiiigiolaNt§kgisw .6Mt.ji)*. tija0.4, o WOW Neil4eteptbed 4711.,k0/6114.5504, fttoMrs
       Mk of Paik_sLII•gcr40911 44 111440•Pi% -etYgli.iii tO:1,. .c: 0:01.0 f4tDs.* on tett* It4s16/ DIEfistorie Places.'
   r.
         0q ofEFfstort.caiihaeplo4ieaii teimtreet
        X.                                                                                       ti..
                                                                                                   0411.010Veal Site (        DIEstml.cDulcling QrDtId
  A Nate: " -: . • '          7. - .". .:. . ::: . ' .... _ :.. *- - - . . - •

 M. Brierc.les- ' litivof aiirItiuks 'on iihic.h) isbiiofi bisied: - • •

           D* 44 4i,'br,                                 Oh of ()• dt • 0± ..(1.ilg* t i%                                                                               ailesEIN°
   Is 11. 4.            Oly *                                                             411464.4.6.4,Pte:a as         it.. t,
                                                                                                             .. P,:l5'11-.    r.

   anbaeo1oa1-sags DI1 tile                             NY -*** R.fs.* iric PresewationVaee.C$ E00044041M§jfe * JAW

g, Mlle alatlieW44hae•ti1o$ ical op                                                   ortetite( s). 6.rriswtql-
                                                                                                              ietti *      iit.ified on thkpr4ct s4el                   11YeS
If KO.s.) . • •
   i.:.,
     DaSetibinaogigiresoitree(s):. .
  41**. lfs fpticlelti.* afion: ;...... ....• .:'. ....... ,.... . ... ,.. .. • . ._ . . . • • • • •

Iloda1
la Ikt3i.:04.0.
              4:6 NkiciAltroxli* 00.#                                                                                                                                   MOON°
                                      40. -. .4gigli4f0 4,461i-olstado!-$51P6ktdaal, staÀ Cr • •
   0.416 `Ot gei.4104561j1W
IfY•t,,
     i:;. ' -.... : .. .., .. , .: • •                                                     s .




  t.T.40...„..
        0* 4111 .
 4,ktalyrotqp.*: p44,00g.. n , q.„ V.' •                                                 r _ ,                iira.)r byetk.OX %lite ta/localptrIc, state l3steajo. t41 Ot $.000344Y;
  X$
zli.   4.4010h.i43•101.0fOldakoli.ael ' . ...........:..: _ .—. - . ... •
                                                                      Antics. • • • : .

    iiIiilfe; r_
L. 1.-          sldlo-gal- •444. '''' :. OKO7-
                                                 0.          ta' . Aet iWflI'S 0100 kiernrional Lies
                                                                                 a                                                                                     10,Yes 1 No
   154edta,      dme.62: • ' • • .

IfY.t
 I.Iden
      $: •'; ill°
              .• "gabl•e .etth.
                            . e.t.lVaitit$.4.4kagloli *_.; • • - • • "
 Ii. Is the aeti— • gifils'istent.with.developmelit teStidoi%csiaialiiO4a WOO.Par -660                                                                                 Mres0No




  F. Adajtiohal.Iiito# 014cm
 Attioh tiny                       tafettaatimi 1 .( oh toy Med t . 1o,*                                             yourpzoi*,
  Ifyou have id6neo.06PalisgS5 rmfiact ".144110fIttibQ 01.004.t0 with yolit PrOpe4al, pleas e kicrin those impacts plus an3,
 measuresw                olippiiiitb:0 MO a titillitb                                                Oh -




  G. VeriDeation
  I certify thadie infonthatio proiae:d is tiei VA 1x.1 0- i' Istiolywge,
  Applicant/S.ponscir Name P, Richard Reasy -Tama Alition                                                                  bate Jun8      2025



  Signature                                                                                                                ttIe .       i•'-     ileom          Tenitim                 16)1Y1
                                              11=i -
                                                  fag




            1: 11 Nt FORM                                                                                    Page 13 of 13
                                                                                                               ren)
                                                                                                                  ea:    punts. oe tipaa ea

                                                                                                                    Dge: ltfi,
                                                                                                                             2ois


                                                   Full Enviromerital.Assess vent p'orrn
                          Part 3 - Evaluation ofthe Magnitude andImportance of _ProjectI fi acts
                                                                            and •
                                                        Determination ofSignificance
Part 3 provides the reasons in support ofthe determination ofsignificance. The lead WWI anent complete Fart 3 for every question
in part 2 where the impact has been identified as potentially moderate to large or where thea is a needto explain why a particular
element ofthe proposed action will not, or may, result in a significant adverse environnteanl ipacd

Based on the analysis in. Part 3, the lead agency must decide whether to require an environrtal mPactstatement to further assess
he proposed action or whether available information is sufficient for the Lead agency to conclude that the proposed action Will not
lave a significant adverse environmental impact. By completing the certification on the net pge, thelead agency catcomplete its
ietermination ofaien! franee. .

lessons Supporting This Determination:
ro complete this section: '
    o    Identify the impact based on the Part 2 responses and describe its magnitude. MagiAtteconsiders factors such as severity,
         size or extent of an impact. ,
    O    Assess the importance ofthe impact. Importance relates to the,geographic scope, & mon, pmbab'rlity ofthe impact
         occurring, number ofpeople affected by the impact and any additionalenviroumeatalconsequences ifthe impact were to
         oCClu'.•.

   O     The assessment should take into consideration any design element or project chaises
   o     Repeat this process for each Part 2 question whereto impact has been identified as poizrli1(y moderate to Large or where
         there is .a need to explain why a particular element ofthe proposed action will not, may,result in a significant adverse
         environmental impact • • .
   e     Provide the reasons) why the impact may, or will mot result in a significant adverse enrfronmental, impact ' .
   e     For Conditional Negative Declarations identify the specific condition(s) imposed tiatwillmodify the proposed action so that
         no significant adverse environmental impacts will result.
   o     Attach additional sheets, as needed.
a Town of Albion Town Board has reviewed and accepted Parts 1 & 2 of the Full Environmental Assess -rad Farm (EAF) for this action. The Town
and has been established as the lead agency, under SEAR, for atakira the. required determination of sigrv rcance. In addition, the general public was
de aware of the public review and comment period provided by the Town Board. No 'significant adverse impacts uEre identified as the result of this
Jew process. Please see the attached documentation supporting the EAF Part 3 in support of this dection.




                                Determination of Significance - Type 1 and Unlistedikcliotis

3QR Status:                   V Type 1                        l Unlisted

entity portions of EAF completed for this Project:           j ' j Part 1         n Part 2 []              Part 3
 Upon review of the information recorded on this EAF, as noted, plus this additional suppot.itifortatn
Environmenfaf Assessment Forn (EAFj Psr 3•



and considering both the 'magnitude and importance of each identified potential impact, it is the conchsion of tae
Town of Albion Town Board • •
                                                                                                           aslead agency that

V    A.   This project Will result in no significant adverse imracts on the
                                                                               environment, and, therefore, an environmental impact

statement meed not be prepared. AccordnmgIy, this negative declaration is issued

D B. Although this project could have a significant adverse impact on the environment, Ent impact. will be avoided or
substantially mitigated because of the following conditionsaMch will be required by the lead agency:




There will, t`herefore, be no significant adverse impacts from. the project as conditioned, and, Therefore, this conditioned negative • ' •
declaration is issued. A conditioned negative declaration may be used only for UNLIS 1'LJJ actions (see 6 Nl'CRR 617.d).
     C. This Project May lesult in one or more significant adverse impacts on the•environrent, cad ai environmental impact
statement must be prepared to * her assess the impact(s) aid possible mitigation and to explore alteratives to avoid or reduce those
mpacts. Accordingly, this positive declaration is. issued.

dame ofAction: Town ofAlbion: Town Code Updates: Chapters 105 & 106 Updates; Chapter 102Proposed incertt*veZan!ng Code
dame ofLead Agency: Town ofAlbion Town Board •

dame ofResfionsible Officer in Lead Agency: F. Richard Re•n!ey ,
itle ofResponsible Officer: Town •Supervisor
tignature of Responsible Officer in Lead Agency:                                                                  Date:     August 11, 2025

lignature of Preparer ( if different from Responsible Officer)                     Shaun R. Logue,MR8 Croup       Date:     August 11, 2025

or Further Information:

ontact Person: F. Richard Remley, Town Supervisor
Lddress: - 3665 Clarendon Road, Albion, New York 14411

elephone Number: 585-589-7048 .

 mail: supervisor@townofal'oion.com•

or Type 1 Actions and Conditioned Negative Declarations, a copy of this Notice is sent to:

thief Executive Officer of the political subdivision in which the action will be principally located (e. g, Town / City / Village of)
ether involved agencies ( if any)
pplicant (if any) - . -
nvironmental Notice Bulletin: http://www.deemmov/enbienb.hunl




PRINT FULL FORM                                                  Page2of2
    Local Law Filing
                              Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
                                                             strike out that which is not applicable.)


    1. ( Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
         hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number Five ( 5)                                          of 2025        of

       the ( County)( City)( Town)( Village) of           Albion
                                                                                                                              was duly passed by the
        Town
                Boardon August 11                                                                                             20 25         in accordance
                              Name of Legislative Body)
       with the applicable provisions of law.


   2. ( Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
       Chief Executive Officer*.)


       I hereby certify that the local law annexed h ereto, ascribed as local law number                                                of 20          of the

        County)( City)( Town)( Village) of                                                                                  was duly passed by the

                                                                         on                                        20             and was
                      Name of Legislative Body)

        approved)( not approved)( repassed after disapproval) by the
                                                                                                  Elective Chief Executive Officer')

       on                                               20           in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

   3. ( Final adoption by referendum.)
        hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number                                                  of 20         of the

        County)( City)( Town)(Village) of                                                                                 was duly passed by the

                                                                                on                                           20            and was
                  Name of Legislative Body)
        approved)( not approved)( repassed after disapproval)
                                                                              by the                                                                     on
                                                                                                   Elective Chief Executive Officer')

                                                    20

       Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a ( mandatory)( permissive) referendum, and received the
       affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the ( general)( special)( annual) election held on
                                                   20             in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

   4. ( Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
       I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number                                                 of 20         of the


       County)( City)( Town)( Village) of                                                                                   was duly passed by the
                                                                                on                                          20            and was
                         Name of Legislative Body)

       approved)( not approved)( repassed after disapproval)               by the                                                                        on
                                                                                                   Elective Chief Executive Officer')

                                                   20 .             Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition

       requesting such referendum was filed as of                                                        20         in accordance with the

      applicable provisions of law.

      Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county -wide basis or, if there be
    none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
    with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS -0239- f ( Rev. 02/ 25)
                                                                                                                                                Page 2 of 3
Local Law Filing

5: ( City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
   I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number                                  of 20          of


   the City of                                                                      having submitted to referendum pursuant to
   the provisions of Section ( 36)( 37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a
   majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the ( special)( general) election held on
                                           20     became operative.


6. ( County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
   I hereby certify that the local law annexed thereto, ascribed as local law number                                 of 20          of


   the County of
                                                                                     State of New York, having been submitted to

   the electors at the General Election of November                        20          pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of


   section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified

   electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county

   considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.



If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
the paragraph    1
                                  above.




                                                                 Clerk of he county legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
                                                                 officer designated by local legislative body

              Seal)
                                                                 Date)




  DOS -0239 -a -f (Rev. 02- 25)                                                                                              page   3 of 3
  Local Law Filing
                          Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
                                                           strike out that which is not applicable.)


  1. ( Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
                                                                                                       Three ( 3)
      I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number                                                    of 20 26      of

      the ( County)( City)( Town)( Village) of
                                                      Albion
                                                                                                                             was duly passed by the
       Town Board                                                                    December 22
                                                                                                                             20 25         in accordance
                          Name of Legislative Body)

      with the applicable provisions of law.


  2. ( Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
     Chief Executive Officer*.)


                                                                                                                                        of 20        of the
       hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
       County)( City)( Town)( Village) of                                                                                  was duly passed by the

                                                                       on                                         20             and was

                     Name of Legislative Body)

       approved)( not approved)( repassed after disapproval) by the
                                                                                                 Elective Chief Executive Officer')

      on                                              20            in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.


  3. ( Final adoption by referendum.)
      I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number                                                  of 20         of the


       County)( City)( Town)( Village) of                                                                                 was duly passed by the

                                                                              on                                            20            and was

                  Name of Legislative Body)

       approved)( not approved)( repassed after disapproval)                by the                                                                      on
                                                                                                 Elective Chief Executive Officer')

                                                 20

      Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a ( mandatory)( permissive) referendum, and received the
      affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the ( general)( special)( annual) election held on
                                                 20              in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

  4. ( Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

                                                                                                                                        of 20         of the
      I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number

       County)( City)( Town)( Village) of                                                                                   was duly passed by the
                                                                               on                                           20             and was

                        Name of Legislative Body)

       approved)( not approved)( repassed after disapproval)                by the                                                                      on

                                                                                                   Elective Chief Executive Officer')

                                                 20 .              Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition


      requesting such referendum was filed as of                                                       20           in accordance with the

      applicable provisions of law.

      Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county -wide basis or, if there be
    none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
    with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS -0239- f ( Rev. 02/ 25)                                                                                                                     Page 2 of 3
Local Law Filing

5. ( City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
   I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number                                    of   20       of


   the City of                                                                      having submitted to referendum pursuant to
   the provisions of Section ( 36)( 37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a

   majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the ( special)( general) election held on
                                              20   became operative.


6. ( County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
   I hereby certify that the local law annexed thereto, ascribed as local law number                                   of 20         of


   the County of                                                                     State of New York, having been submitted to

   the electors at the General Election of November                        20           pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of


   section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified

   electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county

   considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.


If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
                  Of1e
the paragraph                        above.




                                                                 Clerk of the county legislativebbbbody, City, Town or Village Clerk or
                                                                 officer designated by local legislative body

                 Seal)
                                                                  January 26, 2026
                                                                  Date)




   DOS -0239 -a - f ( Rev. 02- 25)                                                                                               page     3 of 3
