Boowros Comme

ni
Washington County Planning Agency

Manicipality; TOWN OF SALEM

Project description;
Applicant Name: TOWN OF SALEM
Address of the proposed action: TOWN OF SALEM
Nearest major intersection; N/A
Tax Map Number: ALL PARCELS LOCATED IN THE JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS OF THE TOWN OF SALEM

Existing land use or conditions: N/A
Proposed changes: TOWN OF SALEM BATTERY STORAGE MORATORIUM

Referring body:
C0 Planning Board
(7) Zoning Board of Appeals
Town or Village Board

Proposed action:
Adoption or amendment of a zoning ordinance or local law
Adoption or amendment of a comprehensive plan [7-722 Town Law; 7-722 Village Law]
Approval of 4 site plan
Oo Granting of a use variance
Oo Granting area variance
O Granting of a special use permit
o Other authorizations that a referring body may issue under the provisions of any zoning
ordinance or local law. Please Specify:
Location is within 500 feet of the following:
CO Municipal Boundary
O Right-of-Way of County/State Expressway, Highway or Road
Oo Boundary of County/State-owned Land Containing a Public Building/Institution/State Park/Recreation Area
(1 Boundary of a Farm Operation Located in an Agricultural District
7 Existing/Proposed right-of-way of any county owned stream/drainage channel/established channel lines
A "Full Statement of such Proposed Action" [239-m (1)(c)] Includes the Following:
Signed Environmental Assessment Form (EAF) and all other materials used by the referring body to make a
determination of significance pursuant to the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA).
® If Type I Action, please note the number of the action as listed under 6NYCRR Part 617.5 (c)
(36) adoption of a moratorium on fand development or construction;
Iv} Copy of the full text of ordinance or local law being proposed or amended Gif applicable)
_! Copy of application submitted to referring body
® Provide details of any requirements of the municipalities codes or regulations that were waived
(J Maps & Plans: Provide four (4) copies of maps and plans if larger than 11°x17”
1 Aerial photograph(s) showing the context of the site location
(0 one (1) printed copy of the full statement with the stated inclusions
OR an electronic version of the completed full statement: please provide thumb drive or e-mail to the Washington
(1 Copy of the requirements of the funicipal Code or Re; ns pertaining to or waived for the
referred project
(1) Agricultural Data Form - This form must be completed for applications requiring municipal review for

Special Use Permit, Site Plan Approval, or Use Variance proposed to occur on property within 500 feet (500°) of
a farm operation located in an Agricultural District (Section 283-a of Town Law or 7-739 of Village Law).



GML §239-M Referral Form
Washington County Planning Agency

Contact Information:
Person responsible for submitting referral: EVERA SUE CLARY
Title or position: SUPERVISOR
Mailing address: PC BOX 575, SALEM, NY 12865

Phone: 518-854-3277 Fax: 518-854-3941
Email: eclary@townofsalemny.gov

Please and receipt below:
Ig , certify that the statement of the proposed action
submitted for referral to the Washington County Planning Agency on (date Le
is complete to the best of my knowledge and in accordance with the municipality’s land use
ordinances and laws.

Space below provided for Planning Department use:

Date received in office: 3[23/26
Deadline Date: =) 23 Jeb _

Mai List for A "Full Statement of such Proposed Action" :
$f County GML 239 Referral Form
Environmental Assessment Forms (EAF)
[Ziespy of the text of ordinance or local law being proposed or amended
[copy of the application submitted to the referring body
[IMaps & Plans (Provide four (4) copies of documents if larger than 11"x17")
[_]Aerial photograph(s) showing the context of the site location
[Jone (1) printed copy of the full statement with the stated inclusions
OR an electronic copy of the full statement
[_] Copy of the requirements of the Municipal Code or Regulations pertaining
to or waived for the referred project
[1 Agricultural Data Form - This form must be completed for applications requiring municipal review for
Special Use Permit, Site Plan Approval, or Use Variance proposed to occur on property within 500 feet (500°)
of a farm operation located in an Agricultural District (Section 283-a of Town Law or 7-739 of Village Law),

(Other

GML-239 Form - Last Update 4/18/2022 Washington County Planning


Short Environmental Assessment Form
Part 1 - Project Information

structions for Comp)

Part 1 - Project Information. The applicant or project sponsor is responsible for the completion of Part 1. Responses become part of the
application for approval or funding, are subject to public review, and may be subject to further verification, Complete Part 1 based on
information currently available. If additional research or investigation would be needed to fully respond to any item, please answer as-
thoroughly as possible based on current information.

Complete all items in Part 1. You may also provide any additional information which you believe will be needed by or useful to the
lead agency; attach additional pages as necessary to supplement any item.

Part I — Project and Sponsor Information
Town of Salem

Name of Action or Project:
Town of Salem Moratorium on Large Scale Battery Storage

Project Location (describe, and attach a location map):
Town of Salem, Washington County, New York

Brief Description of Proposed Action:

Local Law placing a Mortatorium on Large Scale Battery Storage

Name of Applicant or Sponsor: Telephone: 518-854-3277

Town of Salem wo E-Mail:
Address: es ;

PO Box 575, 214 Main St
City/PO: . State: | Zip Code:

Salem ald | 12834
1. Does the proposed action only involve the legislative adoption of a plan, local Jaw, ordinance, NO YES
administrative rule, or regulation? :

If Yes, attach a narrative description of the intent of the proposed action and the environmental resources that Cc]

may be affected in the municipality and progeed to Part 2. If no, continue to question 2.

2, Does the proposed action require a perrnit, approval or funding from any other government Agency? NO YES
If Yes, list agency(s) name and permit or approval:
CJ} CO
3. a, Total acreage of the site of the proposed action? acres
b, Total acreage to be physically disturbed? acres
c. Total acreage (project site and any contiguous properties) owned
or controlled by the applicant or project sponsor? ares

4. Check all land uses that occur on, are adjoining or near the proposed action:
Co urban [[] Rural (non-agriculture) [7] Industrial [[] Commercial ] Residential (suburban)
Cl Forest [F) Agriculture ([] Aquatic [7] Other(Specify):
(CO Parkland

Page | of 3 SEAF 2019


5. Is the proposed action,

NA

a. A permitted use under the zoning regulations?

b. Consistent with the adopted comprehensive plan?

LIC} é

6. 1s the proposed action consistent with the predominant character of the existing built or natural landscape?

7, Ts the site of the proposed action located in, or does it adjoin, a state listed Critical Environmental Area?

If Yes, identify:

L1/3/ 0 |s/010) #

8

8. a. Will the proposed action result in a substantial increase in traffic above present levels?

b, Are public transportation services available at or near the site of the proposed action?

c, Are any pedestrian accommodations or bicycle routes available.on or near the site of the proposed
action?

9. Does the proposed action meet or exceed the state energy code requirements?

sJOO00

If the proposed action will exceed requirements, describe design features and technologies:

O

10. Will the proposed action connect to an existing public/private water supply? NO | YES

Tf'No, describe method fos providing potable water: — 0

11. Will the proposed action connect to existing wastewater utilities? NO | YES
If No, describe method for providing wastewater treatment:

12. a. Does the project site contain, or is it substantially contiguous to, a building, archaeological site, or district NO | YES

which is listed on the National or State Register of Historic Places, or that has been determined by the
Commissioner of the NYS Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation to be eligible for listing on the

State Register of Historic Places?

b. Is the project site, or any portion of it, located in or adjacent to an area designated as sensitive for
archaeological sites on the NY State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO) archaeological site inventory?

13. a, Does any portion of the site of the proposed action, or lands adjoining the proposed action, contain

YES

wetlands or other waterbodies regulated by a federal, state or local agency?

b. Would the proposed action physically alter, or encroach into, any existing wetland or waterbody?

OO

If Yes, identify the wetland or waterbody and extent of alterations in square feet or acres: ee

Page 2 sf 3


14. Identify the typical habitat types that occur on, or are likely to be found on the project site. Check all that apply:
(Shoreline [7] Forest [[] Agrioultural/grasslands [[] Early mid-successional
COWetland [1 Urban [J Subuyban

15, Does the site of the proposed action contain any species of animal, or associated habitats, listed by the State or
Federal government as threatened or endangered?

NO

16, Is the project site located in the 100-year flood plan?

17, Will the proposed action create storm water discharge, sither from point or non-point sources?
Tf Yes,

a. Will storm water discharges flow to adjacent properties?

b. Will storm water discharges be directed to established conveyaace systems (runoff and storm drains)?
If Yes, briefly describe:

OOOO 30

18. Does the proposed action include construction or other activities that would result in the impoundment of water | NO | YES
or other liquids (e.g., retention pond, waste lagoon, dam)?
If Yes, explain the purpose and size of the impoundment: oO Oo
19. Has the site of the proposed action or an adjoining property been the location of an active or closed solid waste. | NO | YES
management facility? Be
if Yes, describe: oO
NO | YES

20.Has the site of the proposed action or an ieee property been the subject of remediation (ongoing or

completed) for hazardous waste?
lf Yes, describe:

LO

O

ICERTIFY THAT THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ABOVE IS TRUE AND ACCURATE TO THE BEST OF

MY KNOWLEDGE

Applicant/sponsor/name: _Town of Salem Date: 3/ 24). Zoe2O,

Signature: fse Cw, Title. Supervisor

PRINT FORM Page 3 of 3



Attachment to Short Environmental! Assessment Form Part 1, Question 1 prepared for
the Town of Salem, Washington County, New York.

Project Name: Local Law No. __ of 2026 — Moratorium on Battery Energy Storage System Facilities

Brief Description of Action:

The proposed action is the adoption of a local law imposing a six-month moratorium on the acceptance of
applications, issuance of permits, or approvals for the construction, ingestion, and operation of Battery
Energy Storage Systems (BESS) within the Town of Salem.

The purpose of this temporary moratorium is to allow the Town of Salem sufficient time to study the safety,
environmental, and zoning impacts of utility-scale battery storage, monitor recent fires at similar facilities in
New York State, and update local land use regulations and emergency Tesporise protocols to ensure the safety
and welfare of the community.


Agency Use Only [If applicable]

Project:

Date:

Short Environmental Assessment Form
Part 2 - Impact Assessment

Part 2 is to be completed by the Lead Agency.

Answer ail of the following questions in Part 2 using the information contained in Part 1 and other materials submitted by
the project sponsor or otherwise available to the reviewer, When answering the questions the reviewer should be guided by
the concept “Have my responses been reasonable considering the scale and context of the proposed action?”

No,or | Moderate

small to large

impact impact

may may

1. Will the proposed action create a material conflict with an adopted land use plan or zoning —_, |
regulations? ;

2. Will the proposed action result in a change sn the use or intensity of'use of land?

3. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of the existing community?

| 4. Will the proposed action have-an impact on the envitonmental characteristics that caused the
establishment of a Critical Environmental Area (CHA}?. ae vm nA
5. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change in the existing level of traffic or
affect existing infrastructure for mass transit, biking or walkway?
6. Will the proposed action cause an increase in the use of energy and it fails to incorporate
reasonably available energy conservation or renewable energy opportunities?
7. Will the proposed action impact existing,
a. public / private water supplies?
b. public / private wastewater treatment utilities?
8. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of important historic, archaeological,
architectural or aesthetic resources? |
9. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change to natural resources (e.g., wetlands,
waterbodies, groundwater, air quality, flora and fauna)?
10, Will the proposed action result in an increase in the potential for erosion, flooding or drainage
| problems?
Ec 1, Will the proposed action create a hazard to environmental resources or human health?

OO OOOO oOo ololo
HoOoooo0o oo oono:

PRINT FORM Page 1 of 2
SEAF 2019



Agency Use Only [If applicable]

Project:

Date:

Short Environmental Assessment Form
Part 3 Determination of Significance

For every question in Part 2 that was answered “moderate to large impact may occur”, or if there is a need to explain why a
particular element of the proposed action may or wil] not result in a significant adverse environmental impact, please
complete Part 3. Part 3 should, in sufficient detail, identify the impact, including any measures or design elements that
have been included by the project sponsor to avoid or reduce impacts. Part 3 should also explain how the lead agency
determined that the impact may or will not be significant. Each potential impact should be assessed considering its setting,
probability of occurring, duration, irreversibility, geographic scope and magnitude. Also consider the potential for short-
term, long-term and cumulative impacts.

Check this box if you have determined, based on the information and analysis above, and any supporting documentation,
that the proposed action may result m one or more potentially large or significant adverse impacts and an
environmental impact statement is required.

LC] Check this box if you have determined, based on the information and analysis above, and any supporting documentation,
that the proposed action will not result in any significant adverse environmental impacts.

Name of Lead Agency 7 Date
Print or Type Name of Responsible Officer in Lead Agency Title of Responsible Officer
Signature of Responsible Officer in Lead Agency Signature of Preparer (if different from Responsible Officer)

PRINT FORM Page 2 of 2


TOWN OF SALEM
WASHINGTON COUNTY, NEW YORK.

‘ Local Law No.___ of 2026
Adopted __, 2026

Local Law Extending a Temporary Moratorium on the Approval of
Commercial Battery Energy Storage Systems within the Town of Salem

Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Salem, as follows:
Section 1. Title:

This Local Law shall be referred to as the “Local Law Extending a Temporary Moratorium on
the Approval of Commercial Battery Energy Storage Systems within the Town of Salem.”

Section 2, Statutory Authority, Purpose and Intent:

This Local Law is adopted pursuant to the authority vested in the Town Board of the Town of
Salem pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §10 of the State of New York to regulate and
control land use, and to protect the health, safety and welfare of its residents of the Town of
Salem by enacting an extension of six (6) months tc the existing six (6) month moratorium on
the approval of any and ali applications relating to the siting, development, construction,
establishment, or creation of commercial battery energy storage systems.

Section 3. Legislative Findings:

A. The Town of Salem Town Board hereby finds that without a temporary moratorium on
the processing, permitting and approval of commercial battery energy storage systems
there is a potential that such uses could be located in unsuitable areas within the Town
and/or on particular parcels of land without adequate dimensional regulations in place,
without adequately considering the visual effects of such uses, without adequately
considering the continuity of agricultural lands and lands located within scenic views in
the Town, and without adequately considering the health, safety and environmental
impacts to water, environmental and agricultural resources. The potential for the
unsuitable location of and lack of proper regulations for such uses would have materially
adverse impacts .an the Town and on the general health, safety and welfare of its
residents, :

B. The Town Board recognizes and finds that time is required to review and examine its
existing ordinances, local laws and land use regulations with respect to the impact of
commercial battery energy storage systems so that suitable legislation can be drafted and
adopted to control the location, size, configuration and permitting of such use so as to
harmoniously integrate such use with the existing rural, agricultural and scenic landscape

Page 1 of 2


of the Town, to protect the general health, safety and welfare of the residents, and to
protect water, environmental and agricultural resources located within the Town.

C. The Town Board further finds and determines that it requires the six (6) month
moratorium period imposed herein in order to carefully review the existing Town Laws
as they apply to such use and to complete the enactment and/or amendment to Town
Laws, schedule and hold the required public hearings, either on amendments to existing
Local Laws or the enactment of new Local Laws, perform the appropriate environmental
reviews thereof, comply with applicable provisions of law, adopt the Local Law(s), and
file the same with the Secretary of State of the State of New York.

D, For the foregoing reasons, the Town Board finds that the temporary moratorium
legislation is both advisable and necessary for a reasonable and defined period of time in
order to adopt and/or amend Town Laws, thus protecting and furthering the public
interest, health and-safety of the residents of the Town of Salem.

Section 4. Body, Temporary Moratorium and Prohibitions:

A. On October 8, 2025 the Town Board of the Town of Salem adopted Local Law | of
2025, titled “Local Law Enacting a Temporary Moratorium on the Approval of
Commercial Battery Energy Storage Systems within the Town of Salem”, which
moratorium was for a period of six (6) months, and the Town Board wishes to extend
said moratorium for 2 period of six (6) months.

B. Continuing from the expiration of said Local Law | of 2025 and for a period of six (6)
months or any extension hereof, no new application for a permit, variance, subdivision,
site plan approval, or other Town approval of any nature shall be accepted, processed,
entertained, approved, approved conditionally, nor shall any permit or approval be
issued by any board, employee, official or agent of the Town of Salem for the siting,
development, construction, establishment, or creation of a commercial battery energy
storage system,

C. Continuing from the expiration of said Local Law 1 of 2025 and for a period of six (6)
months or any extension hereof, no person shall use, cause, or permit to be used, any
land, body of water, building, or other structure for any commercial battery energy
storage system.

D. This moratorium and the prohibitions set torth herein shall be in effect immediately
upon its adoption and subsequent filing with the Secretary of State and shall expire
pursuant to its terms herein, or on the effective date of.a Town Board resolution
affirmatively stating that the Town Board has determined that the need for this
moratorium and the prohibitions set forth herein are no longer necessary or required.

E. This moratorium and the prohibitions set forth herein shall apply to all real property
located within the Town of Salem and all land use applications for the siting,

Page 2 of 2


development, construction, establishment, or creation of a commercial battery energy
storage system.

F. Under no circumstances shall the failure of the Town Board, Town Planning Board or
other official of the Town of Salem to take action upon any new applications for a
permit, variance, subdivision, site plan approval, building permit or other Town
approval, of any kind or nature, in connection with the siting, development,
construction, establishment, or creation of a commercial battery energy storage system
constitute an approval by default or an approval by virtue of the expiration of time to
respond to any such applications.

G. This moratorium and the prohibitions set forth herein shall not apply to a commercial
battery energy storage system for which approvals and/or permits were issued by the
Town prior to October 8, 2025.

H. The term of this moratorium and the prohibitions set forth herein shall be for a period of
six (6) months from the effective date, with the Town Board being permitted to extend
the moratorium for one additional six (6) month period if determined as appropriate by
the Town Board.

Section 5. Definitions: For the purposes of this Local Law the following terms shall have the
meanings respectively set forth below:

A. COMMERCIAL BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS ~ Any rechargeable
energy storage system consisting of electrochemical storage batteries, battery chargers,
controls, power conditioning systems and associated electrical equipment with an
aggregate energy capacity greater than or equal to 600kWH, designed mainly, but no
exclusively, to store and distribute energy produced by large-scale solar energy facilities,
wind generated energy facilities and alternative energy facilities.

Section 6. Penalties:

A. Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this Local Law shall be an unclassified
misdemeanor as contemplated by Article 10 and Section 80.05 of the New York Penal
Law, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than One
Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) or imprisonment for not more than ten (10)
days, or both, for the first offense. Any subsequent offense within a three-month period
shall be punishable by a fine of not more than Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars
($2,500.00) or imprisonment for a period of not more than 30 days, or both. For the
purpose of this paragraph, each day that a violation of this Local Law exists shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.

B. Compliance with this Local Law may also be compelled, and violations restrained by

order or by injunction of a court of competent jurisdiction, in any action brought on
behalf of the Town by the Town Board.

Page 3 of 2


C. In the event the Town is required to take legal action to enforce this Local Law, the
opposing party shall be responsible for any and all costs incurred by the Town relative
thereto, including attomey’s fees and paralegal’s fees, and such amount shali be
determined and assessed by the court. If such expense is not paid in full within thirty
(30) days from the date it is determine and assessed by the court, such expense shall be
charged to the property(ies) within the Town on which the violation occurred, by
including such expense in the next annual Town tax levy against such property(ies), and
such expense shall be a lien upon such property(ies) until paid.

Section 7. Validity and Severability:

If any clause, sentence, phrase, paragraph or any part of this local Jaw shall for any reason be
adjusted finally by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect,
impair or invalidate the remainder of this local law, but shall be confined in its operation and
effect to the clause, sentence, phrase, paragraph or any part thereof, directly involved in the
controversy or action in which such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the remainder of this local law would have been adopted had any

such provisions not been included.
Section 8. State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA):
The Town Board has considered the provisions of Article 8 of the Environmental Conservation

Law (“SEQRA”) and the regulations adopted hereunder at 6 NYCRR part 617 and find this
Local Law to be a Type 1 Action as defined therein. Therefore, no further review is required

under SEQRA.
Section 9, Effective Date:
This Local Law shall! take effect immediately upon the filing with the Secretary of State.

Page 4 of 2
