                     CITY OF OSWEGO
                 LOCAL LAW NO. 1 OF 2025
       A LOCAL LAW ESTABLISHING A MORATORIUM ON
           CERTAIN RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS
BE IT ENACTED by the Common Council of the City of Oswego, Oswego County, New York
as follows:

SECTION 1. PURPOSE AND INTENT
The purpose of this Local Law is to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the City of Oswego and to maintain the status quo as to certain renewable
energy uses defined herein, as the present zoning regulations in the City do not adequately
address these types of uses. The moratorium will stop the processing of applications for,
and the issuance of any permits, certificates of occupancy and approvals for certain land
uses relating to battery energy storage systems, biomass energy systems, geothermal
energy systems, solar energy systems, and wind energy systems, except the processing of
applications as more fully discussed in Section 3 herein. The moratorium is for a period not
to exceed twelve (12) months, allowing the Common Council to analyze and determine
potential appropriate revisions and amendments to the City of Oswego Code concerning
these uses.

SECTION 2. LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
A. The City of Oswego Common Council recognizes and acknowledges the important role
renewable energy systems play in controlling climate change by reducing greenhouse gas
emissions, meeting the future demands for clean, reliable power, and achieving the State’s
climate goals established by the Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act
(CLCPA) by adopting the strategies outlined for local governments contained in the Climate
Action Council Scoping Plan (Pp. 396-403, Strategy LG3, New York State Climate Action
Council. 2022). New York State Climate Action Council Scoping Plan. See,
climate.ny.gov/ScopingPlan

B. The City of Oswego Common Council does hereby find that without a temporary halt to
the processing, permitting, and approvals for certain renewable energy systems there is the
potential that such uses could be located in unsuitable areas within the City and/or on
particular lots without adequate dimensional regulations in place. The potential for the
unsuitable location of and lack of proper dimensional regulations for such uses would have
materially adverse and irreversible impacts on the City and its residents.

C. The Common Council also finds that it needs time to perform the necessary analysis of
the potential types of renewable energy facilities that could be located in the City. By
                                             1
maintaining the status quo regarding such uses the Common Council can provide for the
planned orderly growth and development of the City of Oswego.

SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS

BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM (BESS): One or more devices, assembled together,
capable of storing energy in order to supply electrical energy at a future time, not to include
a stand-alone 12-volt car battery or an electric motor vehicle. A battery energy storage
system is classified as a Tier 1 or Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage System as follows:

   a) Tier 1 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity less than
      or equal to 600kWh and, if in a room or enclosed area, consist of only a single energy
      storage system technology.
   b) Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity greater
      than 600kWh or are comprised of more than one storage battery technology in a
      room or enclosed area.

BIOMASS: Biomass is renewable organic material that comes from plants and animals.
Biomass can be burned directly for heat or converted to liquid and gaseous fuels through
various processes. Biomass sources for energy include: (i) Wood and wood processing
waste—firewood, wood pellets, and wood chips, lumber and furniture mill sawdust and
waste, and black liquor from pulp and paper mills; (ii) Agricultural crops and waste
materials—corn, soybeans, sugar cane, switchgrass, woody plants, algae, and crop and food
processing residues, mostly to produce biofuels; (iii) Biogenic materials in municipal solid
waste—paper products; cotton and wool products; and food, yard, and wood wastes; and
(iv) Animal manure and human sewage for producing biogas (renewable natural gas).

GEOTHERMAL ENERGY: A system by which hot water or steam extracted from reservoirs
beneath the Earth's surface can be used for heat pumps, water heating, or electricity
generation. The term may also mean the use of near-constant underground temperatures
by ground-source heat pumps to provide heating and cooling. Synonyms include ground-
source heating.

SOLAR OR WIND ENERGY EQUIPMENT: A series of collectors, controls, energy storage
devices, heat pumps and pumps, heat exchangers, windmills, and other materials, hardware
or equipment necessary to the process by which solar radiation or wind is (i) collected, (ii)
converted into another form of energy such as thermal, electrical, mechanical or chemical,
(iii) stored, (iv) protected from unnecessary dissipation and (v) distributed. It does not include
pipes, controls, insulation or other equipment which are part of the normal heating, cooling,
or insulation system of a building. It does include insulated glazing or insulation to the extent
that such materials exceed the energy efficiency standards required by law.


                                                2
SOLAR OR WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: An arrangement or combination of solar or wind
energy equipment designed to provide heating, cooling, hot water, or mechanical, chemical,
or electrical energy by the collection of solar or wind energy and its conversion, storage,
protection and distribution. This definition includes freestanding and ground pole-mounted
photovoltaic and parabolic solar or wind installations. This definition does not include
photovoltaic panels or wind turbines that are mounted on or affixed to residential dwellings
for their use, or municipal buildings, or existing panels mounted on commercial or industrial
buildings.

SECTION 3. MORATORIUM IMPOSED; APPLICABILITY
A. For a period of time of twelve (12) months following the effective date of the adoption of
this Local Law no application may be processed, and no permits, certificates of occupancy,
approvals, denials, determinations or interpretations may be issued or granted for any land
uses relating to battery energy storage, biomass, geothermal, solar or wind energy,
including but not limited to facilities for the production of such energy. The term “land uses
relating to battery energy storage system, biomass, geothermal, solar or wind energy” shall
be broadly construed to include any facility designed to generate electric power to be
marketed, sold or used for other than the power demands of the improvements on the
property on which such facility is located. Not included within the scope of this moratorium
are solar or wind energy facilities designed to generate electric power solely for the use of
the improvements located on the same property.

B. This Local Law shall be binding on the Common Council, Planning Board, Zoning Board
of Appeals, Code Enforcement Office, all City officials and employees, and any applicant or
real property owner in the City desiring to apply for or receive a permit, certificate of
occupancy or approval in the City of Oswego.

C. During the period of the moratorium, the Common Council shall endeavor to complete all
reasonable and necessary review, study, analysis and, if warranted, revisions to the City of
Oswego Code.

D. During the period of the moratorium, no applications will be accepted, nor permits,
certificates of occupancy or approvals issued, which would authorize development within
the City for land uses relating to the energy systems as described above.

E. Notwithstanding the provisions contained in Section 3, any owner or operator of an
existing renewable energy system that has been legally permitted that is applying to modify
a previously approved site plan shall be exempt from this Local Law.
F. In the event a renewable energy system is proposed to be located in an Industrial (IN)
Zone under the definition of ‘Bulk Storage’ and otherwise meets the bulk requirements
contained in Chapter 280 of the City Code, the developer shall be permitted to submit an

                                              3
application during the moratorium period provided final approval is not granted until the
expiration of the moratorium, or the adoption of renewable energy systems regulations
whichever occurs first.

SECTION 4. TERM
This moratorium shall be in effect for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months from its
effective date. This Local Law shall be subject to renewal for a cumulative period of up to
an additional six (6) months, if necessary, by Resolution(s) of the Common Council.

SECTION 5. EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS
To the extent that any law, ordinance, rule or regulation, or parts thereof, are in conflict with
the provisions of this Local Law, including all applicable provisions of New York State Law
concerning special use permit, site plan, building permit and certificate of occupancy
procedure and requirements, or the siting of renewable energy systems in general this Local
Law shall control and supersede such law ordinance, rule or regulation.

SECTION 6. WAIVER
Owing to the limited scope and duration of this moratorium, there is no provision being made
in this Local Law for any waivers to its applicability except as set forth in Section 3 herein.
However, the Common Council may, but is not obligated to, promulgate regulations by a
Resolution of the Common Council authorizing a hardship waiver process to this
moratorium.

SECTION 7. SEVERABILITY
If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part of this Local Law shall be adjudged by
any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall be confined in its
operation to the clause, paragraph, section or part thereof directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered, and the remaining provisions
shall remain in full force and effect.

SECTION 8. EFFECTIVE DATE
This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon its filing with the Secretary of State in
accordance with New York Municipal Home Rule Law.




                                               4
