                                         Local Law No. 4 of 2026

          A LOCAL LAW ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY SIX MONTH
    MORATORIUM ON DEVELOPMENT OR CONSTRUCTION OF DATA STORAGE
               FACILITIES WITHIN THE TOWN OF LYSANDER

      It is enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Lysander as follows:

                                        SECTION I. SHORT TITLE.

This local law shall be cited as Local Law 4 of 2026 or the Town of Lysander moratorium on new
Data Storage Facilities.
                        SECTION II. LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND INTENT

The Town Board finds that it is in the best interest of the Town of Lysander to enact a moratorium on
any new Data Storage Facilities, which consist of buildings containing numerous servers and which
have high demand for energy, cooling, and water mechanisms, and can result in disturbing noise
generation. The Town Board recognizes the potential impact of Data Storage Facilities on the Town’s
infrastructure, environment, public health and safety, and community character. The Town of Lysander
is committed to ensuring the health, safety, and welfare of its residents, and to the proper regulation
of land uses within the Town of Lysander. The Town Board has determined that it would be prudent
to temporarily pause consideration of Data Storage Facilities within the Town. Such a pause will
provide sufficient time to study and address any concerns, including, but not limited to, zoning,
environmental impacts, public safety, and economic implications resulting from Data Storage
Facilities, code provisions and comprehensive plan provisions in relation to same.
                                  SECTION III. SCOPE OF CONTROL

For a period of 6 months from the effective date of this local law, no applications for Data Storage Facilities
shall be accepted by any board with appropriate authority in the Town, including the Town Board, Planning
Board, and Zoning Board of Appeals.

Effective Date: This local Law applies to all applications for Data Storage Facilities filed with the Town after
adoption.

Each and every time period regulation and all default provisions otherwise applicable to the development,
permits and/or approvals is hereby suspended and temporarily superseded by this Local law including but not
limited to Section 276 of the New York State Town Law, during its period of effectiveness.

The jurisdiction of the Zoning Board of Appeals to act pursuant to Section 267-b of the New York
State Town Law relative to relief from this Local Law is hereby suspended and temporarily superseded
by this Local law for the purposes of any application for relief from this enactment during its period of
effectiveness.
                             SECTION IV. APPEAL PROVISIONS

The Town Board retains the power to vary or modify the application of any provision of this local
law upon its determination, in its legislative discretion, after public hearing on notice, that this
local law would impose extraordinary hardship upon a landowner, and that a variance from this
act will not adversely affect the health, safety and general welfare of the town. Any request for an
exception or variance shall be filed with Town Board, through the Town Clerk, and shall include a
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the processing of such application. All such applications
shall be reviewed by the Town Board after a public hearing and final decision on the appeal for
relief. Any relief shall be granted through amendments to this local law.

                                    SECTION V. PENALTIES

Any person, firm, entity or corporation that shall violate the terms and provisions of this Local
Law shall be subject to a penalty in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1000.00) for each day
such violation shall exist.
                                    SECTION VI. VALIDITY

The invalidity of a word, section, clause, paragraph, sentence, or part of provision of this local law
shall not affect the validity of any other part of this local law that can be given effect without such
invalid part or parts.

                       SECTION VII. SUSPENSION OF OTHER LAWS

All state statutes and local ordinances or laws in conflict with the provisions of this local law are
hereby superseded and suspended during the effective period of this local law as necessary to give
this local law full force and effect during its effective period.


                              SECTION VIII. EFFECTIVE DATE
This law shall take effect immediately as provided by the law, upon filing with the Secretary of
State and shall remain in force and effect for a period of 6 months from its effective date.
