Town of Mina
Town Board Packet
March 12, 2026 Meeting

#3 of 3


Threat
Report

2026-02-01 - 2026-02-28

TOWN OF MINA



Threat Report 2026-02-01 to 2026-02-28
TOWN OF MINA

SUMMARY

During the time frame of this report, your cybersecurity platform analyzed 295,829 events from 12
entities on your network.

Of those events, there were 37 signals detected through automated and human analysis. Security
analysts manually investigated {| signal that was suspicious in nature. That investigation led to 1
incident report, which required remediation of compromised entities by your security team. This
defense strategy continues to reduce your risk, which maximizes your security and minimizes
cyberattack damage to your business.

ENTITIES =|
PROTECTED “a @g|7

& EVENTS ANALYZED 295 5 829

A) SIGNALS DETECTED 37
een INVESTIGATED 1
G INCIDENTS REPORTED

ANALYST NOTES GLOBAL THREATS
* INITIAL ACCESS
HERBIE ZIMMERMAN * RMM TOOLS
MALWARE ANALYST * SOCIAL ENGINEERING
+ TAX SEASON

This month, we saw continued activity in both cloud identity attacks and Remote Management and
Monitoring (RMM) applications disguised as tax-related software. Social engineering remains the
most common tactic for these types of attacks. Ultimately, the best defense combines robust
detection strategies along with awareness-trained users.



FINDLEY LAKE FIRE DEPARTMENT
2/10/2026

EMS REPORT

e Calls
o Month of January:
= Dispatched ALS - 6
* Dispatched BLS - 4
= Total EMS Calls - 10
= Total Transports - 11
= A231 Dispatched - 15

e Updates
o AED from A231 is missing
= Currently the Fire Hall AED is in A231
Please ensure all equipment is accounted for and returned following calls
Truck check for A231 happens weekly
= New itemized truck check sheets have been created
= A231 weekly check sheets go in EMS mailbox when completed
o A231 has been fully inventoried (thank you Em & Jessy)
= Please make sure that you replace what you use after every call
EMS supply cabinet needs inventoried next
EMS DOH State inspection is coming
= Please ensure that we are keeping everything clean
= Keep an eye on expiration dates
o Mayville will be sending a tech out to check Erie PA radio group in rear A231
= Earliest Radio Training class would be end of April unless we wanted

to look at Thursday evenings


TOWN OF MINA
LOCAL LAW NO. 5 OF 2026

A LOCAL LAW CHANGING GRIEVANCE DAY IN 2026
Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Mina, in the County of Chautauqua, as follows:

Section 1. Legislative Authority.

This local law is enacted pursuant to New York Real Property Tax Law §512, which enables a
Town to enact a local law to change grievance day from the fourth Tuesday of May. This local
law supercedes and is in place of the date for the hearing of complaints set forth in subsection 10
§512 of the Real Property Tax Law.

Section 2. Legislative Intent.

The Town of Mina in the County of Chautauqua employs an assessor who is at the same time
employed by other assessing units. Pursuant to the authority granted by §512, Subdivision 1-a of
Real Property Tax Law, the Town of Mina desires to establish a date for the meeting of the
Board of Assessment Review in 2026 other than that provided in Subdivision 1 of §512 of the
Real Property Tax Law.

Section 3. Grievance Day Established.

The Town of Mina hereby adopts as and for its Grievance Day for 2026 as the first Wednesday
of June - June 3, 2026 from 4-8 pm and as many days thereafter as the Board of Assessment
Review deems necessary when such Board shall meet to hear complaints in relation to
assessments pursuant to §512 of the Real Property Tax Law.

Section 4. Inconsistency.

All other laws and ordinances of the Town of Mina that are inconsistent with the provisions of
this local law are hereby repealed; provided however, that such repeal shall only be to the extent
of such inconsistency and in all other respects this local law shall be in addition to such other
local laws or ordinances regulating and governing the subject matter covered by this local law.

Section 5. Severability.

If any portion of this Local Law or the application thereof shall be adjudged by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional, such order or judgment shall not affect,
impair or invalidate the remaining portions of this Local Law.

Section 6. Effective Date.

This local law shall become effective immediately upon filing with in the New York State
Secretary of State in conformity with NYS Municipal Home Rule Law.


Town of Mina
Proposed Local Law Enacting a Temporary Moratorium on
Battery Energy Storage System Facilities
Local Law #6 - 2026

SECTION |
SHORT TITLE

This local law shall be cited as Local Law No. 6 of 2026 of the Town of Mina and is entitled the “2026
Temporary Moratorium Law on Battery Energy Storage System Facilities.” This local law replaces
Local Law #1-2025 effective May 2, 2025 and replaces Resolution #30-25 extending the moratorium
for six months until May 2, 2026.

SECTION II
LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS

WHEREAS, communities in Chautauqua County are witnessing the introduction of a previously
unfamiliar form of Green-adjacent technology in the form of Battery Energy Storage Systems, or
“BESS”; and

WHEREAS, BESS facilities generally consist of rows of rechargeable batteries housed in self-
contained, interconnected storage units. BESS facilities typically operate by drawing surplus energy
from the local power grid during periods of low usage and storing it for later distribution back into
the grid during peak demand; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Mina and local fire companies have raised concerns regarding BESS
facilities over the presence of highly flammable substances, such as from lithium-ion batteries, and
possible air and groundwater contamination; and

WHEREAS, Governor Kathy Hochul announced the creation of a state interagency working group
tasked with ensuring the safety of battery energy storage systems across New York; and

WHEREAS, NYSERDA (New York State Energy Research and Development Authority) released a
New York State Battery Energy Storage System Guidebook for Local Governments in February 2026;
and

WHEREAS, the Mina Town Board requires additional time to review the guidebook including a
model BESS law for local governments to consider; and

WHEREAS, the Mina Town Board has requested that the Findley Lake Volunteer Fire Department
review the updated guidebook and report the impact to the department of allowing BESS Facilities
in the Town of Mina; and


WHEREAS, the Town Board plans to seek input from the Chautauqua County Hazmat Team as to
the implications to the Town of Mina of allowing BESS Facilities; and

WHEREAS, the Town Board finds it imperative that the Town undertake a thorough examination of
these systems to identify any possible threats to public health, safety and welfare as well as
evaluate the potential for environmental degradation; and

WHEREAS, other potentially significant planning concerns associated with BESS facilities such as
noise generated by cooling fans may affect the quality of life of our residents; and

WHEREAS, it is essential for the Town of Mina to enact a temporary moratorium to carefully
evaluate the implications of BESS facilities and assess how they may impact the Town, its residents,
and its fire prevention infrastructure; and

WHEREAS, the Town Board of the Town of Mina has determined that in accordance with Section
617.5(c)(30) SEQR the adoption of a moratorium on applications for building permits and/or
certificates of occupancy for land development or construction of Battery Energy Storage System
Facilities constitutes a Type II Action, and further that the proposed moratorium has been
identified as an Action not having a significant impact on the environment and is not subject to
review under SEQRA.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Town of Mina shall implement a moratorium to allow
for a comprehensive and deliberate examination of BESS facilities and the state inter-agency
working group as well as NYSERDA Guidelines, with the aim of preserving the Town’s ability to
address the unique needs and concerns of our community in the realm of battery energy storage
system regulations.

SECTION Ill
AUTHORITY

This moratorium is enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Mina pursuant to its authority to
adopt local laws under Article IX of the New York State Constitution and Municipal Home Rule Law
Section 10.

SECTION IV
MORATORIUM

A. Fora period of six (6) months from the effective date of this Local Law, no applications shall
be accepted or considered by the Town of Mina for any battery energy storage system
facilities, or stand-alone.

B. This moratorium may be extended by one (1) additional period of up to six (6) months by
resolution of the Town Board upon a finding of the necessity for such extension.


SECTION V
VARIANCES

The Town Board shall have the authority, after a public hearing, to vary or modify the application of
any provision of the Local Law upon its determination that strict application of this Local Law
would impose practical difficulties or extraordinary hardships upon an applicant and that the
variance granted would not adversely affect the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of the
Town or significantly conflict with the general purpose and intent of this Local Law. Any request for
a variance shall be in writing and filed with the Town Clerk and shall include a fee of Two Hundred
Fifty Dollars ($250.00) for processing of such application. All such applications shall promptly be
referred to the Town Board, which shall conduct a Public Hearing on the application on not less
than five (5) days public notice and shall make its decision with thirty (30) days after the close of
the Public Hearing.

SECTION VI
SEVERABILITY

The invalidity of any word, section, clause, paragraph, sentence, part or provision of this Local Law
shall not affect the validity of any other part of this Local Law which can be given effect without
such invalid part or parts.

SECTION VII
REPEAL OF OTHER LAWS

All local laws in conflict with provisions of this Local Law are hereby superseded and suspended for
the duration of this moratorium and for any additional period that this Local Law is extended. This
Local Law also supersedes, amends and takes precedence over any inconsistent provisions of New
York State Town Law, the Town’s Municipal Home Rule powers, pursuant to Municipal Home Rule
Law Sections 10 and 22. The Town Law provisions intended to be superseded include all of the
Article 16 of the Town Law, Sections 261-285 inclusive and any other provisions of law that the
Town may supersede pursuant to the Municipal Home Rule Law and the Constitution of the State
of New York. The courts are directed to take notice of this legislative intent and to apply such
intent in the event the Town has failed to specify any provisions of law that may require
supersession. The Town Board hereby declares that it would have enacted this local law and
superseded such inconsistent provisions had it been apparent.

SECTION VIII
EFFECTIVE DATE

This Local Law shall take immediately, as provided by law, upon filing with the New York State
Secretary of State.


TOWN OF MINA
A LOCAL LAW ENACTING A MORATORIUM ON WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
LOCAL LAW #7-2026

Section 1. Enactment and Title.

The Town Board of the Town of Mina does hereby enact the Town of Mina Moratorium on
Wind Energy Conversion Systems Law. This Local Law shall impose a moratorium on
applications or proceedings for applications for, the review of applications for, or the issuance
of approvals or permits for the construction of any Wind Energy Conversion System within the
Town of Mina for roughly six months. Technology has evolved so that the Town may be
susceptible to the placement of large-scale wind energy conversion systems under Section 94-c
of New York’s Executive Law. The Town Board finds it imperative that the Town undertake a
thorough examination of these systems to identify any possible threats to public health, safety
and welfare as well as evaluate the potential for environmental degradation.

The capitalized terms in the foregoing sentence, and as used throughout this Local Law, shall
have the following meanings ascribed to them:

Wind Energy Conversion System - A system of components which converts the kinetic
energy of the wind into electrical or mechanical power and which comprises all
necessary components, including energy storage, power conditioning, control systems,
transmission systems (where appropriate) and structural support systems, to provide
electricity or mechanical power for agricultural, residential, commercial, industrial,
utility or governmental use.

Section 2. Authorization, Purpose and Intent.

Pursuant to the authority and provisions of the New York State Constitution, and Section 10 of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and the statutory powers vested in the Town of Mina to regulate
and control land use and to protect the health, safety and welfare of its residents, the Town
Board (the “Board”) of the Town of Mina hereby declares a moratorium on applications or
proceedings for applications for, the review of applications, or the issuance of approvals or
permits for the construction of Wind Energy Conversion Systems within the Town of Mina (the
“Town”), for a period of six (6) months from the effective date of this Local Law. This local law
replaces Local Law #2-2025 “A Local Law Enacting a Moratorium on Wind Energy Systems
effective May 2, 2025 and Resolution #29-25 extending the moratorium for six months until
May 2, 2026.

This moratorium will allow time for Town officials to review, clarify, amend, and update the
Town's regulations for wind energy conversion systems, particularly with regard to where such
development may be located in the Town. Additionally, this moratorium will allow the Town to
adopt such other regulations as may be necessary to promote and preserve the health, safety
and welfare of the Town and its citizens.

Section 3. Scope of Controls.
During the effective period of this Local Law:



A. Neither the Town Board nor any Town Staff shall conduct any review or consider or
grant any permit or other approval that will result in the approval, establishment or
construction of any Wind Energy Conversion System within the Town.

B. To the extent permitted by law, this moratorium shall supersede all relevant provisions
ofthe New York State Town Law, the New York State Building Code, any relevant Town local
law and any other applicable law, rule or regulation, that may be in conflict herewith. If any
ambiguity or conflict exists, this local law shall govern and the presumption shall in each case be
that the moratorium is in effect.

Section 4. No Consideration of New, Revised, or Renewal Applications.

No new, revised, or renewal applications shall be accepted for filing, review, or consideration,
and no site plans, authorizations, special permits, permits, building permits, waivers or other
approvals that purport to allow or advance the development, siting, or construction of any
Wind Energy Conversion System shall be undertaken, reviewed, considered or issued by any
board, officer, employee or agent of the Town. Nor shall any language or term in this
moratorium effect, or be construed to result in, any default approval, and any matter now
pending shall be stayed in place during the pendency of this moratorium, with all deadlines or
other timelines suspended for the same number of days that this moratorium is in effect.

Section 5. Term.
The moratorium imposed by this Local Law shall be in effect for a period of six (6) months from

the effective date of this Local Law. This moratorium may be extended by one (1) additional
period of up to six (6) months by resolution of the Town Board upon a finding of the necessity
for such extension.

During the period of this moratorium the Town shall review the NYSERDA Wind Energy
Guidebook for Local Governments and seek outside council for the purpose of adopting
changes to the Town of Mina’s code with regard to the siting, establishment and construction
of Wind Energy Conversion Systems; and

Section 6. Location.

The moratorium imposed by this Local Law shall apply to the territorial limits of the Town of
Mina. Any dispute as to whether a property is encompassed within the geographic area
detailed above shall be resolved by reference to the official tax maps of Chautauqua County
and the official New York corporate boundary maps for the Town of Mina.

Section 7. Validity.
The invalidity of any provision of this Local Law shall not affect the validity of any other

provision of this Local Law that can be given effect without such invalid provision.

Section 8. Effective Date.
This Local Law shall take effect immediately, as provided by law, upon filing with the New York

State Secretary of State.

