                              TOWN OF BEDFORD
                         TOWN OF BEDFORD TOWN BOARD

   A LOCAL LAW EXTENDING FOR AN ADDITIONAL SIX (6) MONTHS A
     MORATORIUM PROHIBITING THE REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF
           APPLICATIONS AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS FOR
              “BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS”
                   IN THE TOWN OF BEDFORD

                                 LOCAL LAW NO. 1 - 2025

Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Bedford, Westchester County, State of New
York as follows:

Section 1: Purpose.
The purpose of this local law is to extend a moratorium previously adopted on August 13,
2024, that went into effect on August 16, 2024, and is scheduled to expire on February 16,
2025, to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of the Town of Bedford
and to maintain the status quo by temporarily suspending the processing of land use approvals
as provided herein and to further suspend the rights of landowners and their designees to
obtain development approvals as identified below for a period of six months from the effective
date of this local law while the Town Board studies, analyzes and determines potential
appropriate revisions and amendments to the Town Code regarding the propriety of Battery
Energy Storage Systems (as defined below).

Section 2: Definitions.
BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM:
One or more devices, assembled together, capable of storing energy in order to supply
electrical energy at a future time, not to include a stand-alone 12-volt car battery or an electric
motor vehicle.

Section 3: Legislative findings.
This ordinance extends for an additional six-months a moratorium adopted on August 13,
2024, with respect to the issuance of permits and/or approvals for Battery Energy Storage
Systems. The Town of Bedford recognizes that Battery Energy Storage Systems (“BESS”) are
a key component to the viability and promotion of renewable energy sources. However, since
the technology of these systems is still in its infancy, there is a significant amount of recent
public concern about the potentially volatile nature of lithium-ion batteries, which stems from
fires at three different BESS facilities in the State of New York beginning in May 2023.
In response to these BESS fires, New York State Governor Kathy Hochul found it necessary
to form an Inter-Agency Fire Safety Working Group tasked with ensuring the safety of BESS
across New York. On February 6, 2024. Governor Hochul released initial recommendations
from the Inter-Agency Fire Safety Working Group, outlining enhanced safety standards for
battery energy storage systems. The draft recommendations include potential updates to the
Fire Code of New York State as well as a list of additional opportunities for defining and
implementing best practices. If adopted, the changes will codify enhanced safety standards and
continue to position New York as a national leader in responsible and reliable battery energy
storage development.

Therefore, the Town Board, Planning Board, and Zoning Board of Appeals need additional
information and assurances about the safety of these types of facilities, including but not
limited to best practices for fire suppression and emergency response, ensuring the technology
and availability of equipment necessary for local fire departments should a fire occur,
precautions to take related to gas emissions and deterring any necessary fire suppression
chemicals from impacting groundwater, and the adequacy of location and other standards for
siting of BESS. The Town intends to study the safety and security of these energy storage
systems, including thermal runaway, off gassing and toxicity, stranded energy, ways to prevent
fires, prevent by-product contamination, and ensure emergency responders have the necessary
training and information to prepare and deploy resources in the event of a fire.

In addition, the Town is concerned about locating of BESS in proximity to residential
properties and in other areas where fires from such facilities could result in substantial harm
and damage to property and residents in the Town of Bedford. The Town is also concerned
about other adverse environmental impacts that may result from locating BESS on or in
proximity to environmentally sensitive areas and with respect to adjacent properties.

In short, the Town is concerned about the detrimental effects BESS on the health, safety,
welfare and quality of life of the residents and citizens of the Town of Bedford. Given these
concerns and the current lack of relevant data and information on with respect to these issues,
it is necessary for the Town Board to enact a six (6) month limited moratorium prohibiting
the review and approval of applications and issuance permits for BESS in the Town of
Bedford while these issues are further considered, and the Town Code is adequately revised
to address any outstanding concerns.

The Town has formed an advisory committee and is the process of taking other substantive
measures to address the concerns about the effects of BESS on the health, safety, welfare and
quality of life of the residents and citizens of the Town of Bedford. The Town is also
consulting with private entities and public agencies and is developing a proposed local law
implementing new zoning regulations with respect to the location of BESS in the Town of
Bedford and conditions that must be satisfied before BESS can be approved or installed. An
Additional six (6) months is required to finalize the review process being undertaken and to
adopt a local law implanting the appropriate zoning regulations.

Section 4: Moratorium.
Pursuant to the statutory authority vested in the Town to regulate and control land use and to
protect the health, safety and welfare of its residents, the Town Board of the Town of Bedford
hereby extends for an additional six (6) months a moratorium on the review and approval of
new as of yet unfiled and any and all pending applications for any and all land use approvals,
including site plan approvals, subdivision plats, building permits, special use permits and
variances (hereinafter “Land Use Approvals”) for all Battery Energy Storage Systems within
the Town. During the period of this local law:

       1. The Planning Board shall not accept any application, grant any approval to, or
          continue the review of a subdivision plat, site plan, special use permit or other
          permit that includes the permitting, construction and/or development of a Battery
          Energy Storage System within the Town.
       2. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not accept any application or grant any approval
          for a variance or other permit that would have as a result the permitting,
          construction and development of a Battery Energy Storage System within the
          Town.
       3. The Building Department shall not accept any building permit application or grant
          any Certificate of Occupancy or Certificate of Compliance for a Battery Energy
          Storage System within the Town.
       4. Projects currently under construction and projects that have received final
          approvals are not subject to this moratorium.

Section 5: Term.
The moratorium imposed by this Local Law shall be effective six (6) months from the effective
date of this Local Law.

Section 6: Hardship waiver.
A. Should any owner of property in the Town of Bedford affected by this Local Law suffer
   any unnecessary and extraordinary hardship due to the enactment and application of this
   Local Law, then the owner of said property may apply to the Town Board of the Town of
   Bedford in writing for a variance from strict compliance with this Local Law upon
   submission of proof of such unnecessary hardship. For the purposes of this Local Law,
   unnecessary or extraordinary hardship shall not be considered:
      1. the mere concern that regulations may be changed or adopted, or that the Town
         Code may be amended; or
      2. the mere delay in being permitted to make an application or waiting for a decision
         on the application for a variance, special permit, site plan, subdivision, or other
         permit during the period of the moratorium imposed by this Local Law.

B. An application for an exception based upon unnecessary or extraordinary hardship shall
   be filed with the Town Clerk no earlier than the effective date of this Local Law, including
   a fee of Five Hundred and 00/100 ($500.00) Dollars for each tax map parcel claimed to
   be subject to unnecessary or extraordinary hardship, by the landowner or the applicant
   upon the consent of the landowner.

C. The application shall provide a recitation of the specific facts that are alleged to support
   the claim of unnecessary or extraordinary hardship and shall contain such other
   information and/or documentation as the Town Board, shall prescribe as necessary for
   the Town Board to be fully informed with respect to the application.

D. Upon submission of a written application to the Town Clerk by the property owner seeking
   a hardship waiver from the provisions of this Local Law, the Town Board shall, within
   forty-five (45) days of receipt of a completed application, schedule a public hearing on said
   application upon five (5) days’ written notice in the official newspaper of the Town of
   Bedford. At said Public Hearing, the property owner and any other parties wishing to
   present evidence with regard to the application shall have an opportunity to be heard, and
   the Town Board shall, within thirty (30) days of the close of said public hearing, render its
   decision either granting, denying, granting in part or denying in part, the application for a
   hardship waiver from the strict requirements of this Local Law. If the Town Board
   determines that a property owner will suffer an unnecessary or extraordinary hardship if
   this Local Law is strictly applied to a particular property, then the Town Board shall vary
   the application to this Local Law to the minimum extent necessary to provide the property
   owner relief from strict compliance with this Local Law.

E. Standard of Review. In reviewing an application for an exception based upon a claim of
   necessary or extraordinary hardship, the Town Board shall consider the following criteria:
      1. Whether the moratorium will expose a property owner or applicant to substantial
          monetary liability to a third person or would leave the property owner or applicable
          completely unable, after a thorough review of alternative solutions, to have a
          reasonable alternative use of the property.
       2. The extent to which the proposed development activity would cause significant
          environmental harm, adversely impact surrounding natural resource areas, public
          health, comfort or safety concerns and/or have a negative impact upon the Town.
       3. The emergency response plan including evacuation orders to be followed in the
          event of a fire or any other emergency at the facility and satisfactory evidence that
          precautions are in place to suppress a fire and mitigate the extent of damage to the
          surroundings and environment;
       4. The size of subject parcel and the wattage of the Battery Energy Storage System
          facility;
       5. The proximity of the applicant’s proposed Battery Energy Storage System facility
          to residential areas as well as sensitive and high-risk populations including but not
          limited to hospitals, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, schools;
       6. The extent of the proposed development and/or disturbance of the applicant’s
          premises;
       7. The environmental significance, if any, of the applicant’s parcel and the proposed
          development’s impact upon the environment, including existing transportation
          resources;
       8. Compatibility of the proposed development with the aesthetic resources of the
          community or with the existing community or neighborhood character; and
       9. Compatibility of the proposed development with the recommendations of the
          Master Plan, the Comprehensive Plan Update, and all adopted Comprehensive
          Plans and plan elements henceforth.

Section 7: Home rule.
Nothing in this Local Law is intended or shall be construed to limit the home rule authority
of the Town under State Law or to limit the Town’s discretion in setting fees and charges in
connection with any applications requiring Town approval.

Section 8: Authority.
This moratorium is adopted pursuant to Article IX of the New York State Constitution,
§2(c)(6) and (10), New York Statute of Local Governments, § 10, Subdivisions 1 and 7, §§ 261
through 263 of the Town Law, and § 10 of the Municipal Home Rule Law of the State of New
York. In particular, this chapter shall supersede those any provisions of the Town Code and
New York State Law which require the Town Board, Planning Board, and/or Zoning Board
of Appeals to accept, process, and/or approve applications or issue permits for the
development of Battery Energy Storage Systems within specified statutory time periods.
Section 9: Severability.
If any part or provision of this Local Law or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance be adjudged invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall
be confined in its operation to the part or provision or application directly involved in the
controversy in which judgment shall have been rendered and shall not affect or impair the
validity of the remainder of this Local Law or the application thereof to other persons or
circumstances, and the Town Board of the Town of Bedford hereby declares that it would
have passed this Local Law or the remainder thereof had such invalid application or invalid
provision been apparent.

Section 11: Effective date.
This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the Secretary of
State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.
