                                                    Minutes
                                                   Town of Cairo

                                             Monday August 4th, 2025

                                         Town Board Meeting @ 7:00PM

                                        Location: Town Hall Meeting Room



       The Town Board of the Town of Cairo met for a Town Board Meeting on Monday August 4th, 2025, at
the Town Hall, Main Street, Cairo, New York. The meeting was called to order @ 7:02PM and asked the
attendees to Pledge Allegiance to the Flag.
       Attendance: Supervisor Watts, Council Member Bogins, Council Member Cords, Council Member
Murphy
       Absent: Council Member Flaherty.

Minutes:
July 7th, 2025
Offered by Council Member Murphy and seconded by Council Member Bogins.
        Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

New Business:
  • See & Bee Road Closure for Bake Sale
          o The Board sees no issues with this and will continue with the resolution.
              Resolution No. 2025-148
  • Comprehensive Town Plan – Update (Nicole)
          o The Town Grant Write, Nicole Ambrosio, recently informed the Town Board that she put in
              grants for the Town Park, for the Little League and Park Watershed; these haven’t been
              awarded just yet, waiting to hear back. Nicole then continues and speaks to the Board about a
              comprehensive plan and a 5-year plan and about applying for grants that help businesses in
              Town address possible safety issues and parking issues. This would be applied for through
              Green Way Grants. (request recording for more discussion)
  • Executive Session – Personnel
          o Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Murphy.
                 ▪ Opened @ 7:13PM
      Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
      Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.
          o Offered by Council Member Cords and seconded by Council Member Bogins.
                 ▪ Closed @ 7:37PM
      Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
      Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.
Old Business:
   • Vote Correction for Resolution No. 2025-134
          o Council Member Bogins did not mean to vote nay and wanted a revote. Supervisor Watts felt
              that with this resolution that the whole Board should present to revote. This will be tabled and
              voted on at the next meeting, 8/20.
   • Moratorium – Residential Battery Storage Facility
          o The Board would like to adopt another moratorium for the battery storage facility. They do not
              want this storage facility coming into Town for multiple reasons. One being if there was a fire
              the fire department does not have the resources to control the fire, neither do other fire
              departments in the area. These concerns have been expressed from the Fire Department.
              Resolution No. 2025-164
   • Verizon Cell Phone Tower
          o Verizon Wireless is interested in leasing a piece a property from the Town on Ira Vail Road.
              Town has no problem with this and the Town will profit from it.
              Resolution No. 2025-165
   • Marshall and Sterling
          o Two women from Marshall and Sterling came to the meeting to discuss the increases in
              insurance and why. There is about a $10,000 increase due to increasing vehicle and building
              insurances. They also address that the renewal is needed within 30 days.

Correspondence:
   • Resignation Letter – Ambulance Department
         o ‘As you are aware I am relocating out of the area. I am officially resigning from my position with
             the Town of Cairo. If you would please remove me from When2Work and Iamresponding so
             notification stops on my phone ASAP I’d appreciate it. G. Morrison’
   • NYS Department of Health Permit – Cairo Summer Recreation
         o NYS Dept. of Health gave the Town of Cairo the Permit to operate a Children’s Camp; Cairo
             Summer Recreation Day Camp, at the Angelo Canna Town Park at Joseph D. Spencer Lane.
   • Chamber of Commerce Letter
         o ‘On behalf of the Chamber of Commerce, I would like to thank you for continuously supporting
             the Chamber of Commerce by allowing us to utilize the Town Park each year on the 4 th of July.
             Every year the Chamber facilitates a few vendors and facilitates the kids rides/activities and this
             past 4th was no different. I am writing this date to advise the Board that the chamber will not be
             coordinating the 4th of July events at the park next year in 2026. We wished to provides the
             Board with the maximum amount of notice so that is another organization would like to
             assume responsibility, they have enough time to develop a plan. Once again, thank you for the
             Boards support as we transition to varying priorities this coming year. M. Esslie’
   • Certified Pro-Housing Community Letter
         o ‘Thank You for submitting the Town of Cairo’s application to New York’s Pro-Housing
             Communities Program. We are delighted to inform you that we have complete the review of
             your application and the Town of Cairo has been certified as a Pro-Housing Community.’
   • Resignation Letter – Ambulance Department
         o ‘Due to the ongoing issues that are occurring within the Town of Cairo Ambulance, I will be
             resigning as the Administrator. This will be effective August 19th, 2025. I would like to remain as
             a part time AEMT on the roster of the Town of Cairo Ambulance, with working only one shift
             per week, due to the limits from my retirement from NYS. I have enjoyed being the Ambulance
             Administrator for the past few months but feel that I may not be the right person to continue
              that position. Thank you for your confidence and support that the Town Board has shown me.
              G. Laird’
   •   NYS Department of Health Children’s Camp Inspection Summary Report
          o Operation: Cairo Summer Recreation Day Camp (ID: 1066715)
              Facility Name: ANGELO CANNA TOWN PARK
              Facility Code: 19-AL88
              Facility Address: Joseph D. Spencer Lane, Cairo, NY 12413
          o To the Attention of:
              Janet McKeon
              TOWN OF CAIRO
              512 Main Street, Cairo, NY 12413
              Email: cairosummerrec@gmail.com
          o Inspection July 24, 2025 @ 10:30AM
              Inspector: Jordin Mayo (jordin.mayo@health.ny.gov)
              Responsible Person: Janet McKeon
          o Summary
              Number of Public Health Hazards Found: 0
              Number of Public Health Hazards NOT Corrected: 0
              Number of Other Violations Found: 0
   •   PERMA Grant Award – DPW Work Zone Kit
          o ‘As part of PERMA’s return of equity dividend program, the PERMA Board of Directors has set
              aside funding for grants and other programs that focus on reinvesting in members safety
              initiatives in an effort to improve the overall performance of the PERMA pool. Your request has
              been reviewed and congratulations, you have been selected to receive the following grant.
              Grant Awarded: DPW Work Zone Kit – Value: $2,500.00’
   •   NYS Liquor Authority – Seasonal License – Meadowbrook Farm
          o A letter was requested and sent out to the NYS Liquor Authority from the Town Clerk’s Office
              for Meadowbrook Farm.
              ‘Per the request of the NYS Liquor Authority, be advised that the Town is aware that the above-
              referenced applicant is applying for a Seasonal License, that a full menu will be available, and
              the yard area is being licensed.’

Resolution No. 2025-134 “Authorizing the Supervisor to Execute Agreement for RCBG Blackhead Owner LLC
Residential Well Monitoring Agreement”
Councilperson ______ offered the following resolution and moved its adoption:
       WHEREAS, the Planning Board has approved a site plan review and special use permit for RCBG
Blackhead which included as a condition of approval that the applicant and the town enter into an agreement
regarding residential well monitoring, therefore
       BE IT RESOLVED, that the Supervisor of the Town of Cairo is hereby authorized to execute the attached
Agreement.
       TABLED

Resolution No. 2025-143 “Emergency Email Vote – Approve to Hire Part-Time Building Custodian”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Bogins.
       WHEREAS, there is currently a part-time employment vacancy in the Town of Cairo in the Parks,
Buildings and Grounds Department for a Library Building Custodian; therefore,
       WHEREAS, the Town of Cairo advertised for the position and received two applications; therefore,
        BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town Board of the Town of Cairo approves to hire Brandi Harring for part-
time building custodian in the Parks, Buildings and Grounds Department at a pay rate of $_16.00_ per hour
effective immediately.
        Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent/No Response, Council Member Murphy – Absent/No Response. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-148 “Authorize Partial Road Closure”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Cords.
       WHEREAS, the See & Be Kitchen would like to host a Community Bake Sale to raise funds for the
Community Action of Greene County and another local food-related charity.
       WHEREAS, the event would be held on August 16, 2025. The See & Be Kitchen is requesting to partially
close Bross Street from Main Street to the end of the See & Be Kitchen building from 7am – 4pm.
       WHEREAS, the event will not block Main Street and neighbors residing on Bross Street have been
contacted and are amenable to the fund raiser/partial closure of Bross Street. Therefore;
       BE IT RESOLVED, the Town Board does hereby authorize the See & Be Kitchen fund raiser on August
16, 2025 to partially close Bross Street from 7am – 4pm.
       Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-149 “Authorize Supervisor to Sign NYMIR Insurance Renewal Proposal”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Cords.
       WHEREAS, the current New York Municipal Insurance Reciprocal (NYMIR) Policy expires August 4,
2025; and,
       WHEREAS, NYMIR has provided a renewal proposal that must be approved to avoid a lapse in
coverage; therefore,
       BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cairo Town Board does hereby authorize the Supervisor to accept and sign
the Municipal Insurance Proposal with NYMIR not to exceed the amount of $135,064.39 for a one year policy
term beginning August 4, 2025.
       Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-150 “Approve 2025 Budget Amendments on Expenditure Accounts”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Cords.
        WHEREAS, the town law requires that no fund or appropriation account may be overdrawn; therefore,
        BE IT RESOLVED, the Town Board does hereby authorize the Town Supervisor to amend the expense
lines of 2025 as follows:
                                                         From:                To:
                                                         (Debit)              (Credit)
A0-1620-409                                              $ 8,000.00
(Buildings – Contractual – Route 32)
A0-3120-206                                              $ 7,000.00
(Police Vehicle Lease)
A0-7110-400                                                                   $ 15,000.00
(Parks – Contractual)
        Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-151 “Authorize the Supervisor to Execute an Intermunicipal Agreement between the
County of Greene and the Town of Cairo”
Offered by Council Member Cords and seconded by Council Member Bogins.
       BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town of Cairo is participating with Greene County to complete the
construction of a new Community Center; furthermore,
       BE IT RESOLVED, that the Supervisor or his designee is hereby authorized to execute the attached
Indemnification Agreement with Greene County consistent with the terms hereof.
       Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-152 “Authorize the Supervisor to Execute Agreement with Greene County to Allow the
County to be Lead Agency for the County Community Center SEQRA Review”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Murphy.
         BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town of Cairo is participating with Greene County to complete the
construction of a new Community Center for which SEQRA must be completed and the County has expressed
its desire to be Lead Agency for such review; furthermore,
         BE IT RESOLVED, that the Supervisor or his designee is hereby authorized to execute an agreement to
consent to the County to be Lead Agency.
         Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-153 “Exemption of the County of Greene from Town Land Use Laws Town Board of the
Town of Cairo”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Cords.
        WHEREAS, the County of Greene (the “County”) has requested that the Town Board of the Town Cairo
make a determination with regard to whether it shall be exempt from the applicability of the Town’s land use
laws in relation to its proposal to construct a 20,000 square foot called the Greene County Community
Services building which will house the Greene County Mental Health Department; and,
        WHEREAS, the Town Board recognizes that there is significant case law on point, with regard to the
exemption of such a project including In the Matter of the County of Monroe, 72 NY2d 338 (1988), which held
that a balancing test must be performed to determine whether a project of a municipality or agency thereof, is
exempt from the local land use regulation weighing the following factors: 1) Legislative intent; 2) Nature and
scope of the instrumentality seeking immunity; 3) The kind of function or land use involved; 4) The extent of
the public interest to be served; 5) The effect local land use regulation would have on the enterprise; 6)
Impact on legitimate local interests; 7) Alternative locations for the facility in less restrictive zoning areas; 8)
Alternative methods of providing the needed improvement; 9) Intergovernmental participation in the project
development process; and 10) Opportunity of the public and others to be heard; and the Nanuet Fire Engine
Co. No. 1, Inc. v. Amster, 177 Misc. 2d 296 (Rockland County S. Ct., 1998) wherein the Court determined that
the construction of fire houses are municipal projects and must undergo the County of Monroe “balancing
test” to determine whether such action is exempt from local land use regulation; and,
        WHEREAS, the County is a New York State municipal corporation duly organized under the laws of the
State of New York in which the Town of Cairo is located and the service proposed to be offered by the project
will benefit both the residents of the Town of Cairo and the County; and,
        WHEREAS, specifically the project will include site excavation, parking, drainage, utilities, public water
and sewer, public safety controls, lighting and security. The project will be located on an approximate 18.088-
acre parcel on County Route 84 and 23B Town of Cairo, NY bearing tax map number 83.00-4-1 located in a
Main Street Commercial (MSCOM) Zone, as that term is defined in the Town of Cairo zoning law; and,
        WHEREAS, one of the permitted uses in the Main Street Commercial (MSCOM) Zone is a “Municipal
Use”; and,
        WHEREAS, the Town caused the matter to be placed on the agenda during a regular Town Board
meeting allowing the public an opportunity to be heard and there being testimony from several members of
the public in favor of the project and no opposition voiced either against the project or against the granting of
an exemption pursuant to the County of Monroe and Nanuet cases; and,
         WHEREAS, following a discussion and analysis of the aforementioned issues and testimony, Supervisor
Watts offered a motion which was seconded by Councilperson Tim Murphy and carried:
         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board finds that the Legislative intent as it relates to the
within matter is found in the 2008 Comprehensive Plan and the Zoning Law of the Town of Cairo. The
Comprehensive Plan acknowledges several strengths and weaknesses throughout the Town and specifically
cites, at page 9, as one of the strengths that County Offices are located within the Town. Further, the Plan at
pages 26 through 28 finds that one of the important economic development recommendations is to “Work
with the County to explore ways of fully utilizing the existing County office building in Cairo. This may be an
opportunity to set up a conference center or house a regional health center.”
         Clearly, the Comprehensive Plan supports the type of project that is now offered. Further, the Town
Zoning Law, Main Street Commercial (MSCOM) Zone, encompasses the location of the project. The legislative
intent and actual impact of the Zoning Law was to allow for public facilities to be used in the zone. The
testimony and project materials show that the proposed Community Center is a public use. The Zoning Law
defines the term ‘public use’ as “Any use related to municipal functions as authorized by the Town Board.”
Thus, the Board finds that the project is consistent with legislative intent within the Town; and,
         IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Board finds that the nature and scope of the instrumentality
seeking immunity, the kind of function or land use involved and the extent of the public interest to be served
are as follows: the County is a New York State municipal corporation duly organized under the laws of the
State of New York in which the Town of Cairo is located and the service proposed to be offered by the project
will benefit both the residents of the Town of Cairo and the County; and,
         IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Board finds that the effect local land use regulation would
have on the enterprise would be minimal since as discussed above, the proposed use of project fits squarely
into the permitted use of the Main Street Commercial (MSCOM) Zone in which it is located as a public use.
Thus, only a site plan review would be required of the project. The project materials show that that the County
has already created sufficient plans to address all typical site plan review issues; and,
         IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Board finds that there will be no impacts on legitimate local
interests since the project is located on Main Street, has adequate site distance, will be serviced by Cairo’s
municipal water and sewer systems and is consistent with the uses of the adjoining and nearby properties.
Lastly, notwithstanding any grant of exemption from the Zoning Law, the County must still comply with
NYSDEC stormwater prevention requirements, SEQRA and Greene County Department of Health
requirements. The County has declared itself Lead Agency for the SEQRA review of the project and will
conduct a full analysis of any potential environmental impacts. Thus, environmental issues that may impact
local interests shall be appropriately addressed; and,
         IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Board finds that there are no alternative locations for the
facility in less restrictive zoning areas and that there are no alternative methods of providing the needed
improvement. Indeed, as set forth above, the parcel is located in a Main Street Commercial (MSCOM) Zone
where the proposed community center is allowed as a permitted use. Further, the members of the County
presented testimony at the town board meeting with regard to their extensive unsuccessful efforts to locate
land in other locations on which to build the proposed project over the past several years; and,
         IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Board finds that there has been and shall continue to be
considerable intergovernmental participation in the project development process based upon the town board
meeting information and the continuing SEQRA review; and,
         IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Board finds that there has been ample opportunity for the
public and others to be heard. The project was discussed in an open meeting at the Town Board’s regular
meeting, following notice thereof being published in the Town’s official newspaper. Further, the public has
had and shall continue to have the opportunity to be heard during the on-going SEQRA review; and,
        IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED that the Town Board of the Town of Cairo hereby finds that upon the
balancing of all factors in relation to the applications of the County, for the project to subdivide land from an
existing parcel in a MSCOM Zone and to construct a new community center is exempt from the applicability of
the Town of Cairo land use regulations; and,
        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Clerk is directed to file this Resolution in the appropriate
index within five (5) business days.
        Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-154 “Approve Stipend for Code Enforcement Officer for Performing Building Inspector
Duties”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Murphy
        WHEREAS the Building Inspector resigned on March 18, 2025; and
        WHEREAS, the Town of Cairo’s Code Enforcement Officer has taken all duties of the Building Inspector
in addition to her own responsibilities since March 18, 2025; and
        WHEREAS the Town of Cairo’s Code Enforcement Officer is advertising to hire a new Building Inspector
that won’t be able to perform their duties until they complete and pass the first four courses; therefore,
        BE IT RESOLVED That the Cairo Town Board does hereby approves a stipend of $650 per pay period for
the Code Enforcement Officer prorated retroactively to March 18, 2025, and to continue until the newly
appointed building inspector is trained and certified to perform inspections.
        Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-155 “Authorizing Public Hearing”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Cords
        WHEREAS, the Town of Cairo is proposing a new Town Local Law to override the Tax Levy,
        WHEREAS, a Public Hearing is necessary prior to the adoption of any Law. Therefore;
        BE IT RESOLVED, that on August 20, 2025 at 7:00 pm, at the Cairo Town Hall, the Cairo Town Board
shall hold a Public Hearing to override the tax levy limit established in general municipal law Section 3-c.
        Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Nay, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Nay. Motion DEFEATED.

Resolution No. 2025-156 “Authorization to Register & Attend Training”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Murphy.
        WHEREAS, the NYAOT offers 2025 Planning and Zoning School training in Kingston, NY on October 9,
2025. The cost of class will be $100 for each registrant; and
        WHEREAS, the attached agenda topics will benefit the Building Department and the Planning Board in
daily jobs as Code Enforcement, Zoning Officer and Planning Board Clerk; therefore,
        BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town Board does hereby authorizes Stacy Sprague, Christine Heath and
Donna Vollmer to attend School for a one-day training on October 9, 2025.
        Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-157 “Approve to Hiring Part Time EMT”
       WHEREAS, the Town of Cairo Ambulance has a vacancy and is in need of a part time EMT, and
       WHEREAS, Brina Halvorsen is on the Civil Service List and a qualified EMT, willing to move into a part-
time position.
       BE IT RESOLVED, that effective immediately, the Cairo Town Board approves to hire Brina Halvorsen be
moved into a part time position as an EMT for the Town of Cairo Ambulance. The rate of pay will be at $21.42
per hour per the union contract.
       TABLED

Resolution No. 2025-158 “Receipt of Monthly Supervisor’s Report”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Cords.
        WHEREAS, Town Law, Section 125 commands a detailed statement from the Supervisor’s office to be
rendered to the town board of all money received and disbursed and a copy filed in the office of the Town
Clerk; therefore,
        BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town Board Members accept the monthly Supervisor’s Report for July 2025.
        Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-159 “Payment of Bills on Abstract #307 for July Payables and Prepaids”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Murphy.
        WHEREAS, payment of bills should be properly authorized and documented in the minutes; therefore,
        BE IT RESOLVED, the Town Board does hereby authorize that Abstract #307 Payables and Prepaids,
consisting of V5 #00353, 00446-00533, 00537, 00539-00542 in the amount of $ 257,584.91 is approved for
payment;
The total amount to be paid from the:
General Fund -        $ 134,433.23                Hydrant –             $ 8,500.00
Highway Fund -        $ 58,588.45                 Capital Projects -    $ -0-
Street Lighting -     $ -0-                       Polly’s Rock -        $ 21,000.00
Sewer Fund -          $ 13,179.43                 Trust & Agency -      $ 2,148.89
Water Fund -          $ 19,734.91                 Special Fire -        $ -0-
        Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-160 “Approve to Hire Full Time Highway Laborer”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Bogins.
       WHEREAS, the Town of Cairo Highway Department has a vacancy and is in need of a full time Laborer.
       WHEREAS, the town of Cairo Highway Department has hired Ronald Swift at an hourly rate of $23.00
per hour.
       BE IT RESOLVED, that Cairo Town Board does hereby approve the hiring of Ronald Swift as a full-time
Laborer $23.00 per hour effective August 6, 2025.
       Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-161 “Approve Reappointment of Sole Assessor”
Offered by Council Member Cords and seconded by Supervisor Watts.
         WHEREAS, the current term for Janice Hull, Sole Assessor expires 9-30-2025, therefore
         BE IT RESOLVED, the Town Board does hereby reappoint Janice Hull as the Sole Assessor for another
six (6) year term from 10-1-2025 thru 9-30-2031
         Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Abstain, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council
Member Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.
Resolution No. 2025-162 “Approve Use of Acra Community Center Lawn for the Tour the Catskills Cycling
Ride Aid Station”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Bogins.
       WHEREAS, the organizers of the Tour of the Catskills are having their Annual event which will be a non-
competitive bike ride on August 9, 2025. During this ride, they need a place for the cyclists to stop, rest,
hydrate, etc.
       BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cairo Town Board does hereby approve the use of the Acra Community
Center lawn to use as a rest stop for the Annual Tour of the Catskills event.
       Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-163 “Accept Sewer Use Billing”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Cords.
        WHEREAS, it is necessary for the Sewer Use Billing be authorized by the Town Board and documented
in the minutes; therefore,
        BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town Board does hereby accept the Sewer Use Billing from the Sewer
Administrator in the amount of $29,512.24, dated August 1, 2025.
        Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-164 “Authorizing a Public Hearing”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Murphy.
        WHEREAS, the Town of Cairo is accepting public comments on the proposed moratorium for a
residential Battery Storage Facility; therefore,
        BE IT RESOLVED, that on August 20, 2025 at 7:00 pm, at the Cairo Town Hall, the Cairo Town Board
shall hold a Public Hearing to present the proposed six month moratorium.
        Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-165 “Authorize the Supervisor to Sign Agreements between the Town of Cairo and Bell
Atlantic Mobile Systems, LLC dba Verizon Wireless”
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Murphy.
         WHEREAS, Bell Atlantic Mobile Systems, LLC is requesting to put a Verizon Cell Phone tower on Town
owned property on Ira Vail Rd; therefore,
         BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cairo Town Board hereby authorizes the Supervisor to sign a Land Lease
Agreement with Bell Atlantic Mobile Systems, LLC per attached terms and rental fee schedule; furthermore,
         BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cairo Town Board hereby authorizes the Supervisor to sign a Site Access
Agreement for the placement, maintenance and use of communications facility and appurtenant use on the
Ira Vail Rd town property per the attached agreement.
         Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2025-166 “Appoint Ambulance Administrator”
        BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town Board does hereby appoint Jennifer McGee as the Ambulance
Administrator effective August 6, 2025 with a yearly stipend of $_______ payable in equal installments in their
regular, bi-weekly paycheck; furthermore,
        BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town Board terminates the Ambulance Administrator stipend for Gerard
Laird effective through August 5, 2025.     TABLED
Public Comments:
   • Anna addresses to the Board that the new water rates that were sent out were incorrect, even the
       original number was incorrect and an old number from years ago. She later mentions that the water
       tower up by the rooster is constantly letting out water.
   • A. Carr states that when there are events going on at the park that the spigots are not metered or
       monitored and asks who actually pays for the water that is being used in the park as it should be the
       Town. Her concern with this is that the Town is not getting all of the bills that they are actually
       responsible for. The Board states that the Town pays for the water usage in the park.
   • A woman, Kathy, asks about the letter and why it was sent out. The board states that this was sent out
       by the water dept. but since they take care of there own dept. it is not required for them to run their
       notifications past the board. The letter will be corrected and posted.
   • T. Powers asks why there was not a public hearing about the rate changes. Board addresses that there
       was meeting where the water/sewer rates were discussed. There was a presentation on May 5th,
       which was posted in the agenda and another small discussion.
   • L. Asaro mentions the leak that has been going on for years at the Shingle Kill Creek in Town near the
       bridge. Supervisor Watts states that the Water Dept. has been aware of this.
   • Another woman addresses why rates increase if everyone is still using about the same amount of
       water each year. Supervisor Watts states that increases need to occur to keep up with maintaining the
       pipe lines, water main breaks and other equipment repairs for the water/sewer dept.

Monthly Reports: (Not Discussed):
  • Animal Control – June 2025
         o Total Mileage – 153.2
         o 20 total calls
                 ▪ 15 dogs
                 ▪ 1 woodchuck
                 ▪ 1 coyote/wolf
                 ▪ 1 rooster
                 ▪ 2 raccoon
  • Police Department – June 2025
         o Total Mileage for cars 574/575/576/577: 2,753
         o 4 Criminal Complaints / 81 Incident Reports
         o 10 Accident Reports / 8 Arrests / 27 Traffic Tickets

Adjourn Town Board Meeting @ 8:27PM
Offered by Supervisor Watts and seconded by Council Member Bogins.
       Supervisor Watts – Aye, Council Member Bogins – Aye, Council Member Cords – Aye, Council Member
Flaherty – Absent, Council Member Murphy – Aye. Motion Carried.

       Respectfully Submitted


       Kayla L. McAlister
       Cairo Town Clerk
