                             LOCAL LAW NO. _3_ OF 2026
                          CITY OF NORTH TONAWANDA, NY

A Local Law entitled, “LOCAL LAW IN RELATION TO A TWELVE (12) MONTH
EXTENSION OF A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON THE REVIEW,
APPROVAL, AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT OF
CRYPTOCURRENCY MINING AND DATA PROCESSING CENTERS”

Submitted By: Mayor Austin J. Tylec, City of North Tonawanda

WHEREAS, the City of North Tonawanda Common Council previously enacted a moratorium
on the issuance of approvals and/or permits for new development of cryptocurrency mining and
data processing centers which is scheduled to expire July 16, 2026; and

WHEREAS, the purpose of the moratorium is to protect the public health, safety and welfare of
the residents of the City, and

WHEREAS, the City of North Tonawanda has retained consultants C&S Engineers for the
purpose of updating the City’s comprehensive plan and citywide zoning update; and

WHEREAS, the City of North Tonawanda has completed its comprehensive plan that was
adopted at the Common Council regular meeting on November 18, 2025, to address new
circumstances not addressed by its current zoning laws; and

WHEREAS, the Mayor of the City of North Tonawanda convened a steering committee for the
purpose of advising on the zoning updates on August 21, 2025; and

WHEREAS, the City of North Tonawanda commenced a zoning update (January 2026) in
contemplation of its completion within one year; and

WHEREAS, the City of North Tonawanda finds that additional time is necessary to finalize
comprehensive zoning updates pertaining to development of cryptocurrency mining and data
processing centers ensuring proper alignment with the North Tonawanda Comprehensive Plan,
environmental constraints, and special use regulations, and

WHEREAS, the City of North Tonawanda has determined that without an extension of the
moratorium, new data center development may proceed before necessary amendments to North
Tonawanda's zoning legislation are completed, potentially undermining the City's long-term
planning objectives, and

WHEREAS, the extension of the temporary moratorium will allow the City to complete its zoning
studies and finalize appropriate legislative amendments in a deliberate and structured manner, and

WHEREAS, the City of North Tonawanda Common Council has determined that in accordance
with Section 617.5(c)(30) SEQR the adoption of a moratorium extension on applications for
building permits and/or certificate of occupancies for land development or construction of or
modification of Review, Approval, and Issuance of Permits for New Development of
Cryptocurrency Mining and Data Processing Centers constitutes a Type II Action, and further that
the proposed moratorium has been identified as an Action not having a significant impact on the
environment and is not subject to review under SEQRA.
RESOLVED That the City of North Tonawanda Common Council will hold a public hearing on
the aforesaid Local Law at the Cit Hall, 216 Payne Ave, North Tonwanda, New York, on the __
day of ______, 2026, at 6:00 pm, at which time all interested persons will be given an opportunity
to be heard.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the City of North Tonawanda hereby adopts a 12-month
extension to the current moratorium on all new data processing centers and expansion of existing
data processing centers, related to, but not limited to, cryptocurrency mining, blockchain
authenticating, Artificial Intelligence (A.I.) processing, general data computing, processing and
storage, and large-scaled electronic-based centers of the like, within the City of North Tonawanda.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the City of North Tonawanda Common Council hereby
authorizes and directs the City Clerk to send the following proposed Local Law to the Niagara
County Planning Board and adjacent municipalities for their recommendations and review.

BE IT ENACTED by the Common Council of the City of North Tonwanda, NY, as follows:

SECTION 1. TITLE
This Local Law shall be known as “Local Law in Relation to a Twelve (12) Month Extension
of a Temporary Moratorium on the Review, Approval, and Issuance of Permits for New
Development of Cryptocurrency Mining and Data Processing Centers”

SECTION 2. LEGISLATIVE INTENT
Pursuant to the statutory powers vested in the City of North Tonawanda to regulate and control
land use, and to protect the health, safety and welfare of its residents, the City of North Tonawanda
Common Council approved Local Law 2024-2 on July 16th, 2024, adopting a Two-Year
Moratorium on Cryptocurrency Mining and Data Processing Centers. The moratorium is set to
expire on July 16, 2026.

In furtherance of Local Law No. of 2024-2, which established the moratorium, the City of North
Tonawanda Common Council recognizes that the development of cryptocurrency mining and data
processing centers pose significant concerns including, but not limited to, excessive noise,
environmental impacts, increased energy demand, straining the power grid and increasing
electricity costs for residents of the city as a whole, and impacts on neighborhood character and
quality of life.

The Common Council further finds that while technological advancements may offer potential
mitigation of these impacts, the City lacks sufficient regulatory framework to ensure that such
developments align with municipal infrastructure, environmental limitations and community
character.

The City of North Tonawanda Comprehensive plan is complete (November 18, 2025). Therefore,
the Common Council finds that additional time is required to finalize zoning amendments and
                                                 2
recommendations regarding the development of cryptocurrency mining and data processing
centers. Given the complexity of zoning regulations and the need for public review and
deliberation, the Common Council finds it necessary to extend the moratorium to ensure
thoughtful policymaking.

SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS
For purposes of this Local Law:

A. Cryptocurrency Mining is the use of computers or related equipment to validate blockchain
   transactions or generate digital assets.

B. Blockchain Authentication Operations is any process involving distributed ledger
   verification using high-density computing systems.

C. Data Processing Centers shall include, but not be limited to, facilities housing multiple banks
   of computers within building, modular facilities containing processors in multiple storage-like
   containers, server clusters commonly known as "server farms," and other operations related to
   cryptocurrency mining, blockchain authenticating, Artificial Intelligence (A.I.) processing and
   platforming, general data computing, processing and storage, and other large-scale electronic-
   based centers of the like.

D. Existing Operation is a cryptocurrency mining or blockchain authentication operation in
   existence that has received site plan approval prior to the effective date of the original
   moratorium.

E. Expansion is any increase in physical footprint, intensity of use, number of units, processing
   capacity, or infrastructure beyond what existed prior to the original moratorium.

SECTION 4. ENACTMENT OF A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM
Until (12) months from the effective date of this Local Law, after which this Local Law shall
elapse and be without further force of effect unless further extended, no agency, board or official
of the City of North Tonawanda, including but not limited to the Common Council, the Zoning
Board of Appeals, the Planning Commission or the Building Department, shall issue or review
applications for any approval, special use permit, variance, site plan, building permit or permit for
any cryptocurrency mining, block chain authentication operation or data processing center or data
center.

SECTION 5. EXCEPTION DUE TO EXTRAORDINARY HARDSHIP
The Common Council may authorize exceptions to the moratorium imposed by this Local Law
upon finding that postponing consideration of an application would impose extraordinary hardship
from the strict requirements of this Local Law. An application for an exception shall be considered
as follows:

   (a) Submission of ten (10) copies of an application containing the applicant’s detailed
       arguments, including specific facts and evidence to support an alleged extraordinary

                                                 3
       hardship and such other information and documentation as the Common Council shall
       proscribe to consider the application for relief.

   (b) The payment of a filing fee determined by the building department with the application.

   (c) A public hearing on the extraordinary hardship application shall be held by the Common
       Council no later than 62 days after submission of a complete application and shall, within
       thirty (30) days of the close of said Public Hearing, or such further time as the Common
       Council needs to adequately assess the impact of the petition, render its decision either
       granting, denying, granting in part or denying in part, the petition for a variation from the
       strict requirements of this Local Law.

   (d) In reviewing a petition for relief from strict compliance with this Local Law based upon
       a claim of unnecessary or extraordinary hardship, the Common Council shall consider the
       criteria listed below. No application seeking relief or partial relief from the requirements
       and restrictions of this moratorium shall be granted unless the Common Council
       specifically finds and determines from the criteria below, and set forth in its resolution
       granting such relief in whole, or in part, that:

          i.   The extent to which the proposed application for relief is consistent with the goals
               and objectives of the updated City of North Tonawanda Comprehensive Plan.

        ii.    The extent to which the proposed application for relief would adversely impact on
               the character of the surrounding neighborhood or cause harm to public health and
               safety.

        iii.   Whether the strict adherence to this temporary moratorium will expose an applicant
               or property owner to substantial monetary liability to a third person or would leave
               the applicant or property owner unable to use a reasonable alternative.

        iv.    Mere delay in the consideration of a proposed application for relief is insufficient
               to constitute an extraordinary hardship.

         v.    The mere delay in being permitted to make an application or waiting for a decision
               on the application for a variance, special permit, site plan, or other permit during
               the period of the moratorium imposed by this Local Law

   (e) Upon concluding the public hearing, and after consideration of the application and
       evidence submitted, the Common Council shall, in its sole discretion, deny, approve, or
       approve with modifications the application for exception to this temporary moratorium.

SECTION 6. VIOLATIONS
Any person, firm, entity or corporation that shall violate the terms and provisions of this Local
Law shall be subject to a penalty in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1000.00) for each day
such violation shall exist.

                                                4
SECTION 7. SUPERSEDING AUTHORITY
This moratorium is adopted pursuant to Article IX of the New York State Constitution, the General
City Law, General Municipal Law, and Municipal Home Rule Law of the State of New York. This
chapter shall supersede any provisions of the City Code and New York State Law, (specifically N.
Y. General City Law §27-a and §81-a), which require the Common Council, Planning
Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals or Building Department to accept, process, and/or approve
applications or issue permits for the development of cryptocurrency mining, block chain
authentication operation or data processing centers within specified statutory time periods.

SECTION 8. SEVERABILITY
If any clause, sentence, paragraph, or part of this Local Law shall be adjudged by any court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, or invalidate the
remainder thereof.

SECTION 10. EFFECTIVE DATE
This law shall become effective upon filing with the office of the New York State Secretary of
State in accordance with the Municipal Home Rule Law.



                                                       Dated: _____________
Austin J. Tylec, Mayor




                                                5
