Town of Freedom
Regular Board Meeting
Monday, February 17, 2025

Board Members Present: Josh Aarum, Josh Cutler, R. Nick Morgan, Denise Willard,
& Supervisor Dustin Bliss

Other Officials Present: Highway Superintendent Jim Haggerty, Planning Board Doug Wicks,
and Lyle Morgan.

Others: 2

HSER OR ER RIGS nmRioe eR acs I I ISI IR Ia IORI ICICI UR AOA RA ACE IS RE AO RA I A AAI

Meeting called to order at 7:00 pm by Supervisor Dustin Bliss.
LPLEDGE TO THE FLAG: Led by Supervisor Dustin Bliss
I.REVIEW OF MINUTES:
Town Board Meeting — From January 20, 2025

A motion was made by Dustin Bliss to accept the Regular Board Meeting Minutes from January
20, 2025, as submitted. Seconded by Josh Cutler.

Roll Call: Ayes-5 Josh Aarum, Josh Cutler, R. Nick Morgan, Denise Willard
& Supervisor Dustin Bliss

Ill. Town of Freedom
Local Law 1 of 2025

Battery Energy Storage Systems Law
§ Chapter 1 Authority
The town board of the town of Freedom enacts this Battery Storage System chapter under
authority granted by:
A. Article IX of the New York State Constitution, § 2(c)(6) and (10).
B. New York Statute of Local Governments, § 10, Subdivisions 1,6, and 7.
C. New York Municipal Home Rule Law, § 10, Subdivision 1(i), and (ii), and § 10,
Subdivision 1(ii)a(6), (11), (12), and (14).
D. The supersession authority of New York Municipal Home Rule Law, § 10,
Subdivision 1(ii)d3, specifically as it relates to determining which body shall have power
to grant variances under this section, and what variances may be granted to the extent
such grant of power is different than under current town law, as it relates to the power of
the Town Board to regulate land use within the Town to the extent the provisions of this
chapter differ from the authority granted to the town under existing Town law.
E. New York Town Law, Article 16 (Zoning).
F. New York Town Law § 130, Subdivision 1( Building Code), Subdivision 3 (
Electrical Code), Subdivision 5( Fire Prevention), Subdivision 7 (Use of streets and
highways), Subdivision 7a (Location of driveways), Subdivision 11 ( Peace, good order,
and safety), Subdivision 15 ( Promotion of public welfare), Subdivision 15-a (Excavated
lands), Subdivision 16 (Unsafe Buildings), Subdivision 19( Trespass), and Subdivision
25(Building lines).



Town of Freedom
Regular Board Meeting

Monday, February 17, 2025
G. New York Town Law $64, Subdivision 17-a (protection of aesthetic interests),
and Subdivision 23(General powers).
H. New York Real Property Law § 487.
I. Police powers of the Cattaraugus County Sheriff; and the laws of the state of New
York.
Chapter 2, Statement of purpose and findings

A. The Town Board of the Town of Freedom recognizes that battery energy
storage is a clean, readily available and renewable energy source, and the Town of
Freedom intends to accommodate the use of battery energy storage systems. However,
The Town Board finds a growing need to properly site all types of battery energy storage
systems within the boundaries of the Town of Freedom to protect residential, business
areas and other land uses, to preserve the overall beauty, nature , and character of the
Town of Freedom, to promote the effective and efficient use of battery energy resources,
and to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the Town of
Freedom.

B. This battery energy storage systems law is adopted to advance and protect
the public health, safety, welfare, and quality of life of the Town of Freedom by creating
regulations for the installment and use of battery energy storage systems, and to be
consistent with the Town’s Comprehensive Plan with the following objectives:

1. To provide a regulatory scheme for the designation of properties suitable
for the location, construction and operation of battery energy storage systems.

2. To ensure compatible land uses in the vicinity of the areas affected by the
battery energy storage systems.
3. The Comprehensive Plan sets basic Town policies for protecting the

Town’s important drainage features: the creeks, the floodplains, and the wetlands. To
mitigate the impacts and damage of battery energy storage systems on environmental
resources such as agricultural lands, forests, wildlife and other protected resources, and to
minimize the adverse impacts on the Town’s character, environment and economy, health
and safety of the Town’s citizens and property values; to minimize negative impacts on
the unique resources, including but not limited to, the residential, farming and Amish
communities of the Town. These features add natural, pastoral and economic
improvements to the Town and provide important habitats for wildlife.

4. To protect the health and economic well-being of the Towns citizens,
farms, and businesses of the Town in the event of an explosion or fire.
5. Battery energy storage systems need to be regulated from permitting

through construction and ultimately for their removal when no longer being utilized.
C. The Town Board of the Town of Freedom makes the following findings:

1. Shortsighted planning has often resulted in the creation of problem
industries which negatively affect public health and quality of life, examples of which
can be found throughout New York State where abandoned buildings and brownfields
exist, health has been adversely affected, pollution has proliferated, quality of life has
been degraded, and community character has been diminished. Battery energy storage
system facilities are not exempt from these problems, and careful sitting and protections
are of paramount importance. Local communities have, through zoning, site plan


Town of Freedom
Regular Board Meeting

Monday, February 17, 2025

approval, regulation and planning, have been primary protectors of their citizenry. This
chapter will contribute to this effort. The existence of Article 10 of the Public Service
Law and Section 94-c of the Executive Law does not negate this responsibility, and in
fact recognizes it. Further, Article10 and Section 94-c remain untested by judicial review
addressing several potential legal issues. This section is not unduly burdensome to the
mandates or the process set forth in Article 10 and section 94-c but is rather compatible
with them.

2. The findings set forth in this section are cumulative and interactive and
shall be liberally interpreted in conjunction, one with another.
a. Battery energy storage systems have increased significantly in number and can
potentially be sited without sufficient regard to their impact on the health, welfare and
safety of residents, especially in small rural communities.

b. The Town of Freedom is a rural community with many hills and drainage plains.
c. The town of Freedom is a rural community supporting varied agricultural uses
and is in the heart of Western New York’s dairy region.

d. The Town of Freedom has very few tall structures.

e. The Town of Freedom consists of the villages and hamlets of Sandusky, Elton and.
Freedom which are rural, pastoral and devoid of tall structures.

f. If not properly regulated, the installation of battery energy storage systems can

create drainage problems through erosion and lack of sediment control for facility access
roads and can harm farmland through improper siting can cause problems.

g. Battery energy storage systems, when improperly sited, are known to adversely
affect property values and cause economic hardship to property owners.
h. Battery energy storage systems can be significant sources of noise, including

infrasound, that, if unregulated, can negatively affect quict enjoyment of the area,
properties, and the health and quality of life of residents.
(i) Construction of battery energy storage systems can create traffic problems and can cause
damage to
local roads and infrastructure due to the weight of the units.

j. Battery energy storage systems have the potential to cause electromagnetic
interference with various types of communication.

k. Battery energy storage systems need to be regulated for removal when no longer
utilized.

1. Funding and mechanisms for removal need to be in place for battery energy
storage systems when no longer being operated.

m. The Town of Freedom beautiful vista initiative has been considered and reviewed

for compliance; the Town of Freedom Comprehensive Plan has been considered and
complied with; and the Town of Freedom Planning Board reviewed the need for this
chapter and made recommendations; and its conclusions and recommendations have been
duly considered and given great weight.

n. When considering large-scale construction and maintenance, due weight should
be given to the following:
1. The relative distress caused to a community and its residents


Town of Freedom
Regular Board Meeting

Monday, February 17, 2025
2. The actual need for such a facility given general energy production in the area and
region, including clean energy production;
3. Past and present stresses and disruption imposed on our area due to all types of
energy production;
4. Alternatives to such facilities, including location in other areas, location in areas
where demand is needed, and alternative methods of producing and storing energy;
5. Location in areas of highest consumption

6. The burden on the community and its residents versus reward to the community
and its residents, with emphasis on quality of life.
Chapter 3, Definitions
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
ANSI American National Standard Institute
Battery Energy Storage Management System
An electronic system that protects energy storage systems from operating outside their safe
operating parameters and disconnects electrical power to the energy storage system or places it in
a safe condition if potentially hazardous temperatures or other conditions are detected.
Battery Energy Storage System (BESS)

One or more devices, assembled together, capable of storing energy in order to supply
electrical energy at a future time, not to include a standalone twelve volt car battery or an electric
motor vehicle. A battery energy storage system is classified as a Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 3 battery
energy storage system as follows:

A. Tier 1 BESS have an aggregate energy capacity less than or equal to
600kWh that are an accessory use or structure to the principal use; and, if in a room or
enclosed area, consist of a single energy storage system technology.

B. Tier 2 BESS have an aggregate energy capacity greater than 600kWh and
less than 1mWh that are accessory use or structure to the principle use and are generating
electricity to be used on site. These systems may be either in a room or an enclosed area
in a separate adjacent building.

C. Tier 3 BESS (utility/industrial grade system) are systems that are
associated with a large scale solar or wind energy system and are designed with a purpose
to store energy and then put-that energy back into the power grid and have an aggregate
energy capacity greater than lmWh.

Battery Energy Storage System Permit

A special building permit application specifically created for BESS projects.
Battery(ies)

A single cell or group of cells connected together electrically in series, in parallel, or
combination of both, which can charge, discharge, and store energy electrochemically. For the
purposes of this chapter, batteries utilized in consumer products are excluded from these
requirements.

Cell

The basic electrochemical unit, characterized by an anode and a cathode, used to receive,
store, and deliver electrical energy.
Commissioning


Town of Freedom
Regular Board Meeting

Monday, February 17, 2025

A systematic process that provides documented confirmation that a BESS functions
according to the intended design criteria and complies with applicable code requirements.
Dedicated Use Building

A building that is built for the primary intention of housing BESS equipment, is classified as
Group F-1 occupancy as defined in the International Building Code, and complies with the
following: A. The building’s only use is BESS, energy generation, and other electrical grid
operations.

B. No other occupancy types are permitted in the building.

C. Occupants in the rooms and areas containing BESS are limited to certified
personnel that operate, maintain, service, test, and repair the BESS and other energy
systems.

D. Administrative and support personnel are permitted in areas within the
building that do not contain BESS, provided the following:

1. The areas do not occupy more than 10% of the building area of the story in which
they are located.
2. A means of egress is provided from the administrative and support areas to the
public way that does not require the occupants to traverse through the areas that contain
BESS or other energy system equipment.

Energy Code

The New York State Energy Conservation Construction Code adopted pursuant to Article
11 of the energy law currently in effect and as hereafter amended from time to time.

Fire Code

The fire code section of the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code
adopted pursuant to Article 18 of the Executive Law, and New York State Fire Code 1206, as
currently in effect and as hereafter amended from time to time.

Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL)

A United States Department of Labor designation recognizing a private sector organization
to perform certification for certain products to ensure the safety of the public and that they meet
the requirements of both the construction and general industry electrical standards.

NEC
National Electrical Code
NFPA
National Fire Protection Association
Non-Dedicated Use Building
All buildings that contain a BESS and do not comply with the dedicated use building
requirement. Non-Participating Property
Any property that is not a participating property.
Non-Participating Residence

Any residence not located on non-participating property.
Occupied Community Buildings

Any building in Occupancy Group A, B, E,LR, as defined in the International Building
Code, including but not limited to schools, colleges, day care facilities, hospitals, correctional
facilities, public libraries, theaters, stadiums, apartments, hotels, places of worship.
Participating Property



Town of Freedom
Regular Board Meeting

Monday, February 17, 2025

A BESS host property or any real property that is the subject of an agreement that provides
for the payment of monetary compensation to the landowner from the BESS owner (or affiliate)
regardless of whether any part of a BESS is constructed on the property.
UL

Underwriters Laboratory, an accredited standards developer in the United States.
Uniform Code

The New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code adopted pursuant to
Article 18 of the Executive Law, as currently in effect and as hereafter amended from time to
time.
UPS

An uninterruptible power supply or uninterruptible power source is an electrical apparatus
that provides emergency power to a load when input power source or main power source fails. A
UPS differs from an auxiliary or emergency power system or standby generator in that it will
provide near instantaneous protection from input power interruptions, by supplying power from
energy stored in batteries, supercapacitors, or flywheels. The on battery run time of most
uninterruptible power sources is relatively short but sufficient to start a standby power source or
properly shut down the protected equipment. It is a type of continual power system.
Chapter 4, Applicability

The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all BESS permitted, installed, or modified in
the Town of Freedom after the effective date of this chapter, excluding general maintenance and
repair.

A. BESS constructed or installed prior to the effective date of this chapter
shall not be required to meet the requirements of this chapter.

B. Modifications to, retrofits or replacements of an existing BESS that
maintain or increase the total BESS designed to discharge duration or power rating shall
be subject to this chapter.

C. The applicant shall pay the costs of the Town’s attorneys and engineers for
time spent reviewing and analyzing the application.

Chapter 5, General requirements
A. A building permit and an electrical permit shall be required for the installation of
all BESS.
B. Issuance of permits and approvals by the Town of Freedom Planning Board and
Building Inspector shall include review pursuant to the State Environmental Quality
Review Act [ECL Article 8 and its implementing regulations at 6NYCRR Part
617(“SEQRA”)].
C. Liability insurance to protect the health and safety of the homeowner, neighbors,
first responders will be required for Tier 2 and Tier 3 BESS tiers.
D. AIL BESS, all dedicated use buildings, and all other buildings or structures that: 1)
contain or are otherwise associated with a BESS; and 2) are subject to the New York
State Fire Code 1206, Uniform code and/or the Energy Code shall be designed, erected
and installed in accordance with all applicable provisions of the Uniform Code, all
applicable provisions of the Energy Code, and all applicable provisions of the codes,
regulations, and industry standards as referenced in the Fire Code, Uniform Code, the
Energy Code and the Town Code. All materials within the insulation of battery containers
and the chosen ventilation and suppression system shall only contain noncombustible


Town of Freedom
Regular Board Meeting

Monday, February 17, 2025
materials. All BESS-must use a single type of battery cell and not a mixture of battery
cells or types.
E. All work is to be in accordance with the supplied and approved construction
documents as were part of the application for the building permit. The building permit
will have such directive. The permit holder shall immediately notify the code
enforcement officer of any change occurring during the course of the work. The building
permit will have such directive. If the code enforcement officer determines that such
change warrants a new or amended building permit, such change shall not be made until
and unless a new or amended permit is issued reflecting such change.
F, If the code enforcement officer determines that a building permit was issued in
error because of incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete information, or that the work for
which the building permit was issued violates the Uniform Code or the Energy Code, the
Zoning Code or Land use agreement, or any other general or local ordnance, rule or
regulation, the code enforcement officer shall revoke the building permit or suspend the
building permit until such time as the permit holder demonstrates that:

1. All work then completed is in compliance with all local provisions of the
Uniform Code and the Energy Code; and

2. All work proposed to be performed shall be in compliance with all
applicable provisions of the Uniform Code and the Energy Code.

G. Fees. The fees set by the Town Board periodically by resolution must be
paid at the time of application for a building permit, an amended building permit, or for
renewal of a building permit.

H. The buildings, improvements and appurtenances erected and situate upon
any lot in the Town shall at all times be kept ina safe, clean, wholesome condition and
shall comply with all government, heath, and police requirements. Any rubbish of any
kind which may accumulate on any such building lot shall be promptly removed.

Chapter 6, Permitting requirements for Tier 1 BESS

Tier 1 BESS shall be permitted in all areas of the Town of Freedom subject to the Uniform
Code requirements and the BESS building permit and must include a battery replacement
schedule and guarantee. Tier 1 BESS are exempt from site plan review. Tier 1 BESS is subject to
Town Planning Board approval before a building permit is issued.
Chapter 7, Permitting requirements for Tier 2 BESS

Tier 2 BESS are permitted through the issuance of a special use permit and site plan
approval by the Town Planning Board. Tier 2 BESS are to be used as a UPS (uninterruptible
power source) backup generator, and shall be subject to the Uniform Code, and site plan
application requirements set forth in this chapter. Tier 2 BESS shall not be placed on wetlands,
streams, tributaries, or land designated as watershed protection area as designated by the Town,
County, or other agency, land of statewide importance or environmentally sensitive, as shown
ona Town, County, or State map. A. Applications for a Tier 2 BESS shall be:

1. Reviewed by the Town Planning Board for completeness. An application
shall be complete when it addresses all matters listed in this chapter, including but not
limited to: a) compliance with all provisions of the Uniform Code and Energy code;
and. b) matters relating to the BESS and floodplain, utility lines and electrical circuitry,
signage, lighting, vegetation and tree cutting, noise, decommissioning, site plan and
development, special use and development, ownership changes, safety, and permit time



Town of Freedom
Regular Board Meeting
Monday, February 17, 2025
frame and abandonment and emergency access road dimensions approved by local fire
officials. Applicants shall be advised within 14 business days of the first planning board
meeting of the completeness of their application, or any deficiencies that must be
addressed prior to an in-depth review.

2. Subject to a public hearing to hear all comments for or against the
application. The planning board shall have a notice posted in the local newspaper of
general circulation in the town as well as posted on the Town’s website in accordance
with the Town’s special use permit requirements. Applicants shall also have delivered by
first class mail to adjoining landowners or landowners within 500 feet of the property at
least 10 days prior to such a hearing. Proof of mailing shall be provided to the Planning
Board at the hearing.

3. Referred to the Cattaraugus County Planning Board pursuant to General
Municipal Law § 239-m, if required.

4. Upon closing of the public hearing, the Planning Board shall take action
within 62 days of the public hearing (or after the SEQRA process is completed, if not
completed by the day of the hearing), which can include approval, approval with
conditions, or denial of the special use permit. The 62 day period may be extended upon
consent of both the Planning Board and applicant. The Planning Board can then take final
action on the site plan.

B. All on-site utility lines shall be placed underground to the extent feasible
and permitted by the serving utility, with the exception of the main service connection at
the utility company right-of-way and any new interconnection equipment, including
without limitation any poles, with new easements and right-of-way must comply with
New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets requirements, where
applicable.

C. Signage shall be in compliance with ANSI Z235 and shall include the type
of technology associated with the BESS, any special hazards associated with, type of
suppression system installed in the area of the BESS, and 24 hour emergency contact
information, including a reach back phone number. As required by the NEC, disconnect
and shutoff information shall be clearly displayed on a light reflective surface. A clearly
visible warning sign concerning voltage shall be placed at the base of all pad mounted.
transformers and substations.

D. Lighting of the BESS shall be limited to that minimally required for safety
and operational purposes and should be reasonably placed shielded and downcast from
abutting properties minimizing light trespass.

E. Areas within 50 feet on each side of a Tier 2 BESS shall be cleared of all
combustible vegetation and other combustible growth. Single specimens of trees,
shrubbery, or cultivated ground cover such as green grass, ivy, succulents, or similar
plants used as ground covers shall be permitted to be exempt provided they do not form a
means of readily transmitting fire. Woodlands are of particular importance to the rural
nature of the Town of Freedom and their removal should be minimized to the extent
possible, with no more than 10% of total acreage of trees on site to be removed.

F. The one-hour average of noise generated by the BESS, components, and
associated ancillary equipment shall not exceed a noise level, as measured at the outside


Town of Freedom
Regular Board Meeting

Monday, February 17, 2025
wall of any non-participating residence or occupied community building, based on
current or future recommendations by the World Health Organization currently rated at
45 decibels. Applicants may submit equipment and component noise ratings from the
manufacturers of the installed items to demonstrate compliance. The applicant may be
required to provide operating sound pressure level measurements from a reasonable
number of sampled locations at the perimeter of the BESS to demonstrate compliance
with this standard.

G. All topsoil disturbed during construction, reconstruction, or modification
of each BESS will be stockpiled and returned to the site upon completion of the activity
that disturbed the soil. In the event of a fire or explosion, all contaminated soil must be
removed promptly and disposed of in an approved facility.

H. The applicant shall submit a decommissioning plan, developed in
accordance with the Uniform Code, to be implemented upon abandonment and/or in
conjunction with removal from the facility. The decommissioning plan will include:

a. A narrative description to be accomplished, including who will perform that
activity and at what point in time, for complete physical removal of all BESS
components, structures, equipment, security barriers, and transmission lines from the
site.

b. Disposal of all solid and hazardous waste in accordance with local, county, state
and federal waste disposal regulations;

c. The anticipated life of the BESS;

d. The estimated decommissioning costs and how said estimate was determined;

e. The method of ensuring that funds will be available for decommissioning and
restoration;

f. The method by which the decommissioning costs will be kept current in light of
inflation and projected rising costs;

g. The manner in which the site will be restored, including a description of how any

changes to the surrounding areas and other systems adjacent to the BESS , such as but not
limited to, Structural elements, building penetrations, means of egress, and required fire
detection and suppression equipment, will be protected during decommissioning and
confirmed as being acceptable after the system is removed; and

h. A listing of any contingencies for removing an intact operational BESS from
service and for removing a BESS that has been damaged by fire or other event.

(2) The owner/operator of the BESS shall continuously maintain a fund or bond payable to the
Town of Freedom, in a form approved by the Town Attorney for the removal oof the BESS
system, in an amount to be determined by the Town, for the period of the life of the BESS. All
costs of the financial security shall be borne by the applicant and shall be reviewed by the Town
Attomey and the owner/operator together no less than every two years.

(@) A Tier 2 BESS will require a special use permit and a site plan approval from the Town
Planning Board. Any site plan shall include the following:

1. Property lines and physical features including the location and layout of
the BESS and roads for the projected site.
2. Proposed changes to the landscape of the site, grading, vegetation clearing

and planting, exterior lighting, and screening vegetation and structures.


Town of Freedom
Regular Board Meeting

Monday, February 17, 2025

3. A one or three line (as determined by the Town) electrical diagram
detailing the BESS layout, associated components, and electrical interconnection
methods, with all NEC compliant disconnects and overcurrent devices.

4. A preliminary equipment specification sheet that documents the proposed
BESS components, inverters, and associated electrical equipment that are to be installed,
a description of the energy storage management system, the fire resistance rating, and an
explanation of the smoke, fire, ventilation, exhaust, and noise suppression systems to be
installed. A final equipment specification sheet shall be submitted before a building
permit is issued.

5. Name, address, phone number, and contact information of proposed or
potential system installer and the owner and/or operator of the BESS. Information of the
final system installer shall be submitted prior to the issuance of the building permit.

6. Name, address, phone number, and signature of the project applicant, as
well as all the adjacent property owners, demonstrating their consent to the application
and the use of the property for a BESS.

7. A commissioning plan shall document and verify that the system and its
associated controls and safety systems are in proper working condition per requirements
set forth in the Uniform Code. Where commissioning is required by the Uniform Code,
BESS commissioning shall be conducted by a New York State licensed professional
engineer after installation is complete prior to final inspection and approval. A corrective
action plan shall be developed for any open or continuing issues that are allowed to be
continued after commissioning. A report describing the results of the initial acceptance
testing required by the Uniform Code shall be provided to the Town prior to final
inspection and approval at an appropriate on-site location.

8. A fire safety and security plan shall document and verify that the system
and its associated controls and safety systems are in compliance with New York State
Fire Code 1206, the Uniform Code and is designed for BESS modules. The rooms in
which the BESS equipment is located shall not be used for storage purposes. Fire walls
should also be included in the design of the project. These shall be constructed of
conerete or composite materials and positioned between containers. Site security is
important to protect the equipment as well as to prevent injuries to curious neighbors.
Perimeter access monitoring and notification of security breach to the site operator shall
be required. The operator shall follow all recommendations of the operator’s energy
storage insurance underwriter.

9. An operation and maintenance plan shall describe continuing BESS
maintenance and property upkeep and weed control, as well as design, construction,
installation, testing and commissioning information and shall meet requirements set forth
by the uniform code.

10. | Remote and continuous online monitoring, early detection sensors and
appropriate venting to avoid the buildup of gas and automatic fire suppression systems to
NEPA 855 standards shall also be in place.

ll. Erosion, sediment control, and stormwater management plans prepared to
New York State Department of Environmental Conservation standards, if applicable, and
to such standards as may be established in the Town of Freedom and by the Planning
Board through the approval process.

10


Town of Freedom
Regular Board Meeting
Monday, February 17, 2025

12. Prior to the issuance of the building permit or final approval by the
Planning Board, but not required as part of the application, engineering documents must
be signed and sealed by a New York State licensed professional engineer and signed off
by the Town Building Inspector and Town engineering firm.

13. Acopy on an approved emergency operations plan shall be given to the
system owner, the local fire department(s), and the local fire code official. A permanent
copy shall also be placed in an approved location accessible to facility personnel, fire
code officials, and emergency responders. Prior to activation of the facility, the system
operator must meet with the Cattaraugus County Fire

Coordinator and Director of Emergency Services and the local first responders to review the
emergency operations plan in its entirety and to determine if specialized personal protective
equipment (PPE) or fire suppression/containment equipment is needed. If additional fire
suppression/containment is required that is not currently available, the system operator must
purchase these items. The emergency operations plan shall include the following information:

a. Procedures for safe shutdown, de-energizing, or isolation of equipment and
systems under emergency operations to reduce the risk of fire, electric shock, and
personal injuries, and for safe startup following cessation of emergency conditions.

b. Procedures for inspection and testing of associated alarms, interlocks, and
controls.
c. The property must be inspected by a subject matter engineer or other certified

subject matter inspector after a high wind or flood type event to ensure that the property
did not sustain damage.

d. Procedures to be followed in response to notifications from the BESS
management system, when provided, that could signify potentially dangerous conditions,
including shutting down equipment, summoning service and repair personnel, and
providing agreed upon notification to the fire department personnel for potentially
hazardous conditions in the event of a system failure.

e. Emergency procedures to be followed in case of fire, explosion, release of liquids
or vapors, damage to critical moving parts, or other potentially dangerous conditions.
Procedures can include sounding the alarm, notifying the fire department, evacuating
personnel, de-energizing equipment, and controlling and/or extinguishing a fire.

f. Response considerations similar to a safety data sheet (SDS) that will address
safety concerns and extinguishment when an SDS is not required.
g. Procedures for dealing with BESS equipment damaged in a fire or other

emergency event, including maintaining contact information for personnel qualified to
safely remove damaged BESS equipment from the facility. System owner shall provide
guaranteed non emergency and emergency response times of a qualified subject matter
expert to the town and first responders.

h. Other procedures as determined as necessary by the Town to provide for the
safety of occupants, neighboring properties, and end emergency responders that shall
include but not limited to a smoke plume test for evacuation procedures. All smoke
plume test data shall be made public.

(1) Procedures and schedules for conducting drills of these procedures and for training of local

first responders on the contents of the plan and appropriate response procedures and a map of the

area showing emergency access roads with turning radii dimensions and turnaround loop.

11



Town of Freedom
Regular Board Meeting

Monday, February 17, 2025
Training of first responders shall be done on an annual basis. The training can be conducted in
classroom or on site as per fire department wishes. The training should also include mutual aid
responders.

j. The system owner shall notify the local fire department, Cattaraugus
County emergency management, and the Town at least one week before any scheduled
maintenance or battery swap out.

k. In the event of fire or explosion, all expenses related to cleanup and
remediation shall be paid by the system owner/operator and all contaminated soil must be
placed in a landfill approved for such materials by the system owner.

(14) During construction inspections, all work must be open and exposed. Work shall remain
accessible and exposed until inspected and accepted by the Code Enforcement Officer. The
permit holder shall notify the Code Enforcement Officer when any element of work described in
subsection 1(14)(b) of this section is ready for inspection.
(a) Elements of work to be inspected include the following where applicable:
Work site prior to issuance of a building permit;
Footing and foundation;
Preparation for concrete slab;
Framing;
Building systems, including rough-in and underground;
Fire resistant construction;
Fire resistant penetrations;
Solid burning fuel heating appliances, chimneys, flues, or gas vents,
. Energy code compliance;
10. Inspection after all work authorized by building permit has been completed and
signed off by Town Engineer and Town Building Inspector,
11. A final inspection by the fire marshal must be completed prior to activation.

b. After inspection, the work or a portion thereof shall be noted as
satisfactory as completed, or the permit holder will be notified as to where the work fails
to comply with the Uniform Code or the Energy Code. Work not in compliance with any
applicable provision of the Uniform Code or the Energy Code shall remain exposed until
such work comes into compliance with the aforementioned codes. After remediation, the
work will be reinspected until such work comes into compliance with all provisions of
the Uniform Code and the Energy code.

c. A fee will be specified in or determined in accordance with the provisions
set forth in New York State Law § 205-67.4. Fees required by this chapter must be paid
for prior to or at the time of each inspection performed pursuant to this section.

(J) Special use permit standards

1. Tier 2 BESS shall comply with the setback requirements of the underlying
Town of Freedom building Code for principle structures.

2. Tier 2 BESS shall comply with the building height limitations for
accessory structures in the Town of Freedom building code.

3. Tier 2 BESS, including all mechanical equipment, shall be enclosed by a7
foot high fence with a self-locking gate to prevent unauthorized access unless housed in a
building and not interfering with ventilation or exhaust ports.

CRENAAAWNE

12

















