                                        Marcellus Town Board
                                         Workshop Meeting
                                      Wednesday, March 18, 2026
                                              6:30 PM


A Workshop Meeting of the Town of Marcellus, County of Onondaga, State of New York was held on
Wednesday, March 18, 2026, in the Town Hall, 22 East Main Street, Marcellus, New York.

        Present: Jane Attley                            Supervisor
                 Jeff Berwald                           Councilor
                 Percy Clarke                           Councilor
                 Terry Hoey                             Councilor
                  Karen Pollard                         Councilor



Also Present: James Gascon, Town Counsel; Mike Ossit, Highway Superintendent; Don MacLachlan, Park
and Recreation Director; John Houser, Codes Officer; Linda Wilcox, Tom Lathrop, Bill Southern, Josilynn
Howell, Cole Austin, Juliana Demperio, Zachary Redfield, Suzanne Tobin, Deputy Town Clerk; Rosemary
Tozzi, Town Clerk.


Abstract of Audited Vouchers: The Abstract of Audited Vouchers was given to the Board Members as
submitted by the Town Clerk. Abstract #3 for March 18, 2026. Claim #’s 159324-159383, 159393-159398.

                                        Expense
                General Fund                                $22,543.17
                Part Town General                             1,776.25
                Townwide Highway                             31,507.01
                Part Town Highway                             5,670.25
                Fire District                                10,199.75
                Hydrant Fund                                  1,797.83
                Ambulance Fund                                1,216.25
                Water District                               13,540.62
                Trust and Agency                                  0.00

                        Total                               $89,383.63


Abstract of Audited Vouchers: The Abstract of Audited Vouchers was given to the Board Members as
submitted by the Town Clerk. Abstract #3 for March 19, 2026. Claim #’s 159399-159402.

                                        Expense
                General Fund                                $15,297.72
                Part Town General                             2,517.13
                Townwide Highway                              2,402.63
                Part Town Highway                             2,402.64
                Trust and Agency                                  755.77

                         Total                                $23,375.89

Councilor Clarke made a motion seconded by Councilor Hoey to approve the Abstract of Audited
Vouchers and pay the bills for March 18, 2026, and March 19, 2026.
Ayes –Attley, Berwald, Clarke, Hoey and Pollard                     Carried


Old Business:
NYSEG Delivery Charge Resolution:
                                         TOWN OF MARCELLUS
                                       TOWN BOARD RESOLUTION
                                           March 18, 2026

                  A RESOLUTION STRONGLY URGING IMMEDIATE REVIEW OF
                 ELECTRIC DELIVERY CHARGES, DEMANDING IMPROVED COST
                CONTROLS AND TRANSPARENCY, AND AUTHORIZING FORMAL
 COMPLAINTS TO THE NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION REGARDING THE ESCALATING
                                   COST OF ELECTRICITY



        Councilor Pollard, made the following motion, which was seconded by Supervisor Attley, the

following Resolution was put before the Town Board of the Town of Marcellus for its consideration:


        WHEREAS, residents, seniors, and small businesses in the Town of Marcellus are experiencing

unsustainable, repeated, and compounding increases in electric bills that are placing a growing financial

strain on households and the local economy; and


        WHEREAS, a substantial portion of these increases are not attributable to increased energy

consumption, but to escalating delivery charges, fees, and approved rate adjustments imposed by the

utility companies; and


        WHEREAS, electric delivery charges and rate structures are regulated and approved by the New

York State Public Service Commission, which is statutorily charged with ensuring that utility rates are just,

reasonable, and affordable for ratepayers; and
        WHEREAS, the Town Board has received complaints from residents who are struggling to afford

basic electric service and who have expressed serious concern regarding the frequency, magnitude, and

lack of transparency surrounding recent and ongoing rate increases; and


        WHEREAS, rural and low-density communities such as the Town of Marcellus are

disproportionately impacted by delivery charge increases and cost-recovery mechanisms that fail to

adequately account for affordability, equity, and the cumulative burden placed on ratepayers; and


        WHEREAS, the Town Board finds that continued approval of rate increases without stronger cost

controls, greater transparency, and meaningful affordability protections, is unacceptable and contrary to

the public interest;


        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town Board of the Town of Marcellus formally and

strongly urges the New York State Public Service Commission to conduct a thorough and immediate review

of electric delivery charges, rate increases, and cost-recovery practices applicable to utility customers; and


        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Board calls upon the Public Service Commission to

prioritize ratepayer affordability, demand greater transparency from the utility companies, and require

demonstrable cost-containment and operational efficiency measures before approving any future rate

increases; and


        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Board expressly opposes continued or automatic rate

increases that shift rising operational, infrastructure, and administrative costs onto ratepayers without

clear justification or adequate protection for rural communities; and


        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Supervisor is hereby authorized and directed to submit

formal complaints, written comments, and supporting documentation to the New York State Public Service
Commission on behalf of the Town and its residents, objecting to excessive electric costs and requesting

regulatory intervention; and


        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Clerk is directed to transmit copies of this resolution to

the New York State Public Service Commission, the utility companies, the Governor of the State of New

York, members of the New York State Legislature, and neighboring municipalities served by the utility

companies, and to encourage coordinated action among affected towns; and


        BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this resolution shall take effect immediately upon adoption.


        The question of the adoption of the foregoing resolution was duly put to a vote and upon roll call,

the vote was as follows:


          Jane Attley                   Town Supervisor              Voted            Yes
          Terry Hoey                    Councilor                    Voted            Yes
          Jeff Berwald                  Councilor                    Voted            Yes
          Percy Clarke III              Councilor                    Voted            Yes
          Karen Pollard                 Councilor                    Voted            Yes

        The foregoing resolution was thereupon declared duly adopted.


DATED: March 18, 2026


New Business:
Introductory Local Law No. A of 2026 (12) Month Moratorium on Battery Energy Storage Systems:

                                         TOWN OF MARCELLUS
                                      TOWN BOARD RESOLUTION
                                            March 18, 2026
                           TOWN OF MARCELLUS LOCAL LAW NO. A OF 2026
                      (“A Local Law Imposing a Twelve (12) Month Moratorium on
                     Battery Energy Storage Systems within the Town of Marcellus”)

        Councilor Berwald introduced proposed Local Law No. A-2026, titled “A Local Law Imposing a

Twelve (12) Month Moratorium on Battery Energy Storage Systems within the Town of Marcellus”, and

made the following motion, which was seconded by Councilor Hoey:
WHEREAS, proposed Local Law No. A-2026 has been introduced and will be considered for enactment

pursuant to the provisions of the Municipal Home Rule Law and Town Law; and


        WHEREAS, this proposed moratorium will enable the Town of Marcellus to undertake a review to

comprehensively address the issues involved with battery energy storage systems within the Town of

Marcellus, including but not limited to siting, establishment, placement, installation, construction,

erection, modification and/or enlargement of said systems; and


        WHEREAS, the Town recognizes the potential benefits and desirability of renewable forms of

energy, including battery energy storage systems, but has determined that time and research are

necessary to determine how to properly regulate such systems; and


        WHEREAS, the Town Board has deemed this moratorium urgent and immediately necessary in

order to preserve the status quo while this issue is examined by the Town; and


        WHEREAS, no other agency has the legal authority or jurisdiction to approve or directly undertake

the enactment of a local law in the Town of Marcellus, such that there are no other involved agencies

within the meaning of the New York State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA) with respect to the

proposed enactment of said Local Law; and


        WHEREAS, the adoption of said Local Law is a Type II action for purposes of environmental review

under SEQRA thus concluding the environmental review process.


        NOW, THEREFORE, it is


        RESOLVED AND DETERMINED that the Town Board shall conduct a public hearing as to the

enactment of proposed Local Law No. A-2026 at the Town Hall located at 22 East Main Street, Marcellus,

New York on April 15, 2026, at 6:30 p.m., or as soon thereafter as the matter can be heard, at which time

all persons interested in the subject shall be heard; and it is further
        RESOLVED AND DETERMINED that notice of said public hearing shall be provided at least five (5)

days prior to the date of said public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the Town of

Marcellus; and it is further


        RESOLVED AND DETERMINED that pending action of this Local Law, the Town of Marcellus will

neither accept nor process any application pertaining to battery energy storage systems.


        The question of the adoption of the foregoing resolution was duly put to a vote and upon roll call,

the vote was as follows:


           Jane Attley                  Town Supervisor                  Voted             Yes
           Terry Hoey                   Councilor                        Voted             Yes
           Jeff Berwald                 Councilor                        Voted             Yes
           Percy Clarke III             Councilor                        Voted             Yes
           Karen Pollard                Councilor                        Voted             Yes

        The foregoing resolution was thereupon declared duly adopted.

DATED: March 18, 2026

A copy of the full law is available in the Town’s Clerk Office for review during normal business hours.

Vision Insurance for Town Employees: Three plans were provided to the Town Board for vision
insurance through Excellus; simply vision gold, simply vision platinum and simply vison platinum
plus. The simply vision platinum plus has coverage for safety glasses for the subscriber only. After
some discussion the Town Board selected simply vision platinum plus for vision insurance offered
to employees. The cost for this plan is $21.31 for employees, $35.05 for employees plus spouse,
$36.42 for employees and child/children or $47.75 for employees and family. All active full-time
employees are eligible, and the Town will contribute 50% of the cost. The Town’s portion for the
vision insurance will be paid from the Tax Stabilization Reserve.
Councilor Berwald made a motion seconded by Supervisor Attley to select simply vision platinum
plus as the vision insurance offered to employees and approved the Town to pay half of the monthly
cost.
Ayes –Attley, Berwald, Clarke, Hoey and Pollard                       Carried

After-the-Ball Party: Gerri Stearns, Grant Committee Chairperson asked the Town Board to donate
funds towards the Marcellus after-the-ball party. In the past years the Town has donated $500.00.
The Town Board decided to increase the donation to $600.00 due to the cost-of-living increase.
Supervisor Attley made a motion seconded by Councilor Clarke to make a $600.00 donation to the
Marcellus after-the-ball party.
Ayes –Attley, Berwald, Clarke, Hoey and Pollard                        Carried
Stormwater Presentation of Draft Annual Report for Public Comment: John Houser, Codes Officer, is
requesting Supervisor Attley to sign the 2025 annual report and the interim progress certification for the
annual stormwater report. This report once signed will be electronically sent to the DEC. The report is
available on the Town’s website for review and comments.

Councilor Pollard asked what it means when the form says not due this year.

John Houser responded, in 2024 the DEC created a new permit process for the MS4 municipalities, that
year is considered year one. Current regulations are being added and required over the next five years.
When the form says not due this year it means it was not part of the current stormwater management
plan but will be required in the future.

Councilor Berwald made a motion seconded by Councilor Hoey to accept the form and approve
Supervisor Attley to sign the MS4 Operator Certification Form for eReports to be sent to the DEC
regarding stormwater.
Ayes –Attley, Berwald, Clarke, Hoey and Pollard                         Carried

Discussion Agenda:

Supervisor Attley, we will be meeting the Fire Department on March 25, 2026, at the Marcellus Fire
Department for a special meeting for a tour and discussion of their wants and needs. The public is
welcome.

Councilor Hoey, the Fire Department, provided a list of proposed topics to discuss during the special
meeting. The Fire Department will be hosting a pancake breakfast on March 29, 2026.

Councilor Pollard, as a Board do we have a list of questions we want to ask the Fire Department?

Councilor Hoey, so we are doing a tour and a sit-down discussion on March 25, 2026.

Councilor Pollard, are we going to have a presence at the Municipal Housing Summit?
       No Board member committed to going to the meeting.

Adjournment: Councilor Clarke made a motion seconded by Supervisor Attley to adjourn the Workshop
Meeting at 7:15 PM.
Ayes –Attley, Berwald, Clarke, Hoey and Pollard                     Carried


Respectfully submitted,


Rosemary Tozzi
Town Clerk
