LOCAL LAW NO. 1-2024 TO IMPLEMENT A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM
RELATIVE TO SOLAR FACILITIES AND BATTERY STORAGE, EXCEPT FOR
RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR

BE IT ENACTED, by the Town Board of the Town of Walworth, Wayne County, State of New
York, as follows:

Section I.     Authorization

The adoption of this Local Law is in accordance with Section 10 of New York’s Municipal
Home Rule Law.

Section II.    Title and Purpose

This law shall be known as and may be cited as Local Law No. __-2024 of the Town of
Walworth to Implement a Temporary Moratorium Relative to Solar Facilities and Battery
Storage, Except for Residential Rooftop Solar.

The purpose of this local law is to enact a moratorium in the Town of Walworth in order to
temporarily halt for a period of six months the development of new solar facilities and battery
storage except for residential rooftop solar, while the Town of Walworth examines and studies
the impacts of the development of solar facilities and battery storage and develops and adopts
local legislation to regulate such solar facilities.

Section III.   Legislative Findings

The Walworth Town Board finds and hereby determines that the State of New York is currently
experiencing and has over the recent has experienced significant new development of solar
facilities and continues to receive more interest for additional development of solar facilities. In
addition, battery storage, particularly for energy generated via solar facilities, has also received
significant interest. The Town has noted popularity of new solar facilities in New York as well as
the interest in battery storage and would like to examine the potential impacts thereof in the
Town of Walworth as well as develop and adopt local legislation to regulate solar facilities and
battery storage. Thus, pursuant to the Town’s recently approved update to the Comprehensive
Plan, the Town seeks to implement local laws to address development of solar facilities; and

While the Town considers the aforementioned impacts and develops local legislation to regulate
the same, the Town Board finds that any development of solar facilities and battery storage
should be prohibited for a temporary period of time until completion of said studies in order to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the Town of Walworth, including to better promote
community planning and development values in the context of the rapidly changing technology
and industry of large scale solar facilities and battery storage.

During the pendency of the moratorium, the Town Board will consider how best to permit such
solar facilities and battery storage installations so as to harmoniously integrate such installations
with the existing community.
Section IV.   Moratorium Provisions

   A. Definitions:

SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
    Equipment and associated structures and materials that directly converts and then transfers
    or stores solar energy into usable forms of thermal or electrical energy.

RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
     A solar energy system servicing a one- or two-family dwelling, designed primarily to
     provide energy to the subject dwelling(s), where the solar panels are wholly contained on
     the rooftop of the dwelling (not including solar shingles).

BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR COMPONENTS
     Components of a building which harness solar energy for usable forms of electric or
     thermal energy. These components are directly integrated into the building itself. By way
     of example, these may comprise specially treated windows and glass, shingles, etc. This
     does not include roof-mounted solar panels. Building-integrated solar components are not
     considered solar energy systems for purposes of these regulations and are thus not subject
     to these regulations.

LARGE BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM
    A rechargeable energy storage system consisting of batteries, battery chargers, controls,
    power conditioning systems and associated electrical equipment designed to provide
    electrical power to a building or to provide electrical grid-related services, having an
    energy capacity greater than 20 kilowatt hours.

   B. Moratorium

The development, including the new construction, addition, or expansion of Solar Energy
Systems, except for Residential Rooftop Solar Energy Systems and Building-Integrated Solar
Components, and/or the new construction, addition, or expansion of Large Battery Energy
Storage Systems shall be prohibited within the Town of Walworth until six months pass from the
date of the adoption of this Local Law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the length of this
Moratorium may be modified by the subsequent repeal or amendment of this law.

During the Moratorium implemented herein, 1) there shall be no granting or amendment of site
plan approvals, subdivisions, special use permits or rezoning that would have the effect of the
establishment or construction of any Solar Energy Systems (except for Residential Rooftop Solar
Energy Systems and Building-Integrated Solar Components) or Large Battery Energy Storage
Systems, 2) the Town of Walworth may refuse to review or accept applications involving the
development of Solar Energy Systems (except for Residential Rooftop Solar Energy Systems and
Building-Integrated Solar Components) and Large Battery Energy Storage Systems, and 3) the
Town of Walworth reserves the right to rescind any approvals issued in violation of this Local
Law.


                                              2
This Moratorium shall be applicable to any and all development of Solar Energy Systems (except
for Residential Rooftop Solar Energy Systems and Building-Integrated Solar Components) and
Large Battery Energy Storage Systems occurring after the adoption of this local law. Any
development of Solar Energy Systems or Large Battery Energy Storage Systems which has been
approved prior to such date shall not be subject to this Moratorium.

       C. Application for Relief

Any party considering itself aggrieved by this local law may apply to the Zoning Board of
Appeals for a use variance from the limitations in this local law, all pursuant to those regulations
governing use variances.

       D. Penalties

It shall be a violation of this local law to develop Solar Facilities (except for Residential Rooftop
Solar Energy Systems and Building-Integrated Solar Components) or Large Battery Energy
Storage Systems in the Town of Walworth during the Moratorium as established herein.

Any person, firm or corporation that violates this Local Law shall be subject to penalties and
enforcement provisions as set forth at Article X of Chapter 180, entitled “Zoning,” of the
Walworth Town Code.

Section V.     Validity and Severability

Should any word, section, clause, paragraph, sentence, part or provision of this Local Law be
declared invalid by a Court of competent jurisdiction, such determination shall not affect the
validity of any other part hereof.

Section VI.    Repeal, Amendment and Supersession of Other Laws

All other Ordinances or Local Laws of the Town of Walworth which are in conflict with the
provisions of this Local Law are hereby superseded or repealed to the extent necessary to give
this Local Law force and effect during its effective period.

Section VII.   Effective Date

This Local Law, after its adoption by the Town Board of the Town of Walworth, shall take effect
immediately upon its filing with the Secretary of State of NY.




                                                  3
