                                       Town of Norfolk
                              Local Law No. 5 of the year 2025
                                         PROPOSED

      WHEREAS, the Town Board of the Town of Norfolk (the “Town”) desires to enact a
Moratorium on all energy storage system development (as defined herein) operating within the
Town;



       WHEREAS, the Town Board intends to enact comprehensive regulations regarding
energy storage system development in the Town;



        WHEREAS, the Town Board believes that such a moratorium will protect the public
interest and welfare of the residents of the Town until such comprehensive regulations are
adopted; and



       WHEREAS, there are currently no regulations relating to energy storage system
development within the Town, but the Town Board believes that such regulations can be duly
considered and adopted by the date set forth herein;




       NOW, THERFORE, BE IT ENACTED AS FOLLOWS:

       1. There is hereby placed a moratorium on all energy storage system development in
          the Town of Norfolk, County of St. Lawrence, and State of New York.

       2. An energy storage system shall mean one or more devices, assembled together,
          capable of storing energy in order to supply electrical energy at a future time, not to
          include a stand-alone household battery, 12-volt car battery or an electric motor
          vehicle. Nothing herein shall prevent energy storage system equipment located on or
          within any legally permitted building or structure for the purpose of storing
          electricity primarily for onsite consumption. Further, nothing herein shall prohibit a
          licensed load serving entities from conducting its regular and usual business of
          providing electrical distribution within its service territory as defined by its tariff
          with the New York State Department of Public Service.
3. This moratorium shall expire on the 30th day of June, 2025.

4. This local law shall take effect upon filing with the Town Clerk of the Town,
   and upon filing the same with the Secretary of State of the State of New York.

5. The above local law was enacted by the Town Board of the Town on
   the ______ day of June, 2025.




                                            Town Clerk
                                            Town of Norfolk
