                           WAYNE COUNTY PLANNING BOARD
                                          May 28, 2025
                                           MINUTES
A meeting of the Wayne County Planning Board was held in-person at 9 Pearl Street, Second
Floor Conference Room in Lyons, NY. Determining that a quorum of members was present,
Chairperson Marini called the meeting to order at 7:00 P.M. and proceeded with a call to join in
the Pledge of Allegiance.
Members Present: Patricia Marini, Chairperson – Walworth, Joseph Firendino, Vice-Chair –
Galen, Mike Cramer – Marion, Scott Allen – Macedon, Rob Burns – Lyons, Kenneth Conklin –
Ontario, Steve Guthrie – Rose, Bob Hutteman – Arcadia, Matt Krolak – Palmyra, , Robert
Milliman – Wolcott, Bert Peters – Williamson
Members Absent: Chad Mendenhall, Secretary – Butler, Dennis Grabb – Sodus, Larry
Lockwood – Huron
There is currently one vacancy for the Town of Savannah on the 15-member board.
County Staff Present: Luke Kornbau – Assistant Planner, Eli Levine – Planner.
Members of the Public Present: Don Lewis – Domicello, Alexander Amering – Costich
Engineering, Justin Lattore – Colliers Engineering & Design, Helen Palmer – Colliers
Engineering & Design, Joe Geiger – United Through Wellness, Cole Papasergi – Marathon
Engineering, Victor Ciaccia – Norbut Solar Farms, Nate Cobb – Norbut Solar Farms
MINUTES
Chairperson Marini asked if there were any changes or comments to the previous meeting
minutes from March 26, 2025. No questions or comments were made. Mr. Firendino made a
motion to approve the minutes, Mr. Burns seconded the motion. Marini abstained, all others
present approved. Minutes were approved.
ADMIN UPDATES / COMMUNICATIONS
There were no administrative updates / communications at this meeting.
MEETING GUIDELINES
Mr. Kornbau read the meeting guidelines.
ZONING & SUBDIVISION REFERRALS
Chairperson Marini called for the Board to begin review of the list of referral applications.


                           1. Project: Village of Newark, Walmart
Address: 6788 Route 31
Type of Action(s): Area Variance

Walmart was seeking an area variance to change the spacing of their parking spaces to 10x18
feet from 9x19 feet and add a 42 foot light poll where a 20 foot poll is allowed.

Motion: Mr. Hutteman made a motion for No County Impact on the proposed the area variance.
Mr. Peters seconded the motion.
Ayes – 11 | Nays – 0 | The board determined there was no county impact on the proposed
application.


                            2. Town of Rose, Battery Moratorium
Type of Action(s): Moratorium
The Town of Rose wanted to impose a moratorium on the construction of large-scale solar farms
and battery storage units in the Town.
Motion: Mr. Peters made a motion for No County Impact on the moratorium. Mr. Burns
seconded the motion.
Ayes – 11 | Nays – 0 | The board determined there was no county impact on the proposed
application.



                   3. Project: Town of Ontario, United Through Wellness
Address: 70 Ridge Road
Type of Action(s): Special Permit
Chairperson Marini introduced the special permit applicant. Mr. Joe Geiger from United
Through Wellness introduced the project as a special permit for an indoor recreation use as a
wellness center offering a variety of therapy options for veterans, law enforcement, first
responders, and the general public. The proposed facility would provide therapists, yoga
instructors, financial planning coaches, and other services targeted for veterans, law
enforcement, first responders and the general public. Mr. Guthrie asked about how parking
would be accommodated for the proposed uses. Mr. Geiger reported the land is owned by the
same family that owns Mama Lors restaurant across the street. This is relevant because United
Through Wellness and Mama Lors would share parking spaces across the two lots. Mr. Geiger
told the board that they would time their classes to avoid Mama Lors’s most busy hours on
Sunday mornings and Friday evenings. Mr. Geiger said that they’d anticipate no more than 30
people at a time during the restaurant’s off-hours and would organize carpooling for special


events to save spaces. Chairperson Marini asked how many parking spaces are present in total.
Mr. Geiger replied there was 22 spaces on the property and 45 total spaces available with Mama
Lors’s parking lot. Mr. Geiger mentioned the possibility of more if United Through Wellness
could make a deal with the post office on the other side of the property.

Motion: Mr. Guthrie made a motion to approve the special permit. Mr. Peters seconded the
motion.
Ayes – 10 | Nays – 0 | Mr. Conklin abstained. The special permit was approved.



                       4. Project: Town of Ontario, Battle Rattle Spirits
Address: 70 Ridge Road
Type of Action(s): Special Permit
Chairperson Marini introduced the special permit applicant for a whiskey distillery and tasting
room on the project site. Mr. Joe Geiger withdrew the application. They will look for an
alternative site to avoid mixing mental health and substance abuse therapies with alcoholic
beverages.

Motion: The application was withdrawn. No vote was taken.



                    5. Project: Town of Ontario, Travertine Technologies
Address: 318 Timothy Lane
Type of Action(s): Special Permit
Chairperson Marini introduced the special permit applicant. Mr. Alexander Amering from
Costisch Engineering. No one from Travertine Technologies was present, as they are from
Boulder, CO. Travertine Technologies would need a special permit to operate a lab that converts
CO2 and gypsum to sulfuric acid as a scientific use. Leasing 10,000 sqft of lab space will be
used. Equipment will be brought in and set up in the lab space. The only modifications to the
building will be a device to capture CO2, and a new overhead door and ramp. Travertine
Technologies received a grant to NYSERDA to study the process of creating sulfuric acid. The
lab would work for 18 months, at which time, NYSERDA would evaluate their results. If the
results are positive, the process of production would be scaled up in a different location.
Travertine Technologies has received their permit from DEC and an exempt status for air quality
impacts. No utilities would be changed. Mr. Guthrie asked if there would be additional noise
from the facility. Mr. Amering said no additional noise beyond a forklift is anticipated. The lab
will receive one truck load of gypsum a month and send one truck load of sulfuric acid each
month. Mr. Peters asked what would happen to the special permit when Travertine Technologies
finished their project. Mr. Allen replied that the permit would remain with the property until the


terms of the special permit changed. Mr. Guthrie asked how many employees were present. Mr.
Amering replied there would only be between 2 to 4 people working at the lab.

Motion: Mr. Burns made a motion to approve the special permit. Mr. Allen seconded the
motion.
Ayes – 10 | Nays – 0 | Mr. Conklin Abstained. The board approved the special permit.



                          6. Project: Town of Ontario, Mark Marino
Address: 2244 Ridge Road
Type of Action(s): Site Plan & Subdivision
Chairperson Marini introduced the site plan and subdivision applicant. Mr. Cole Papasergi from
Marathon Engineering was present to speak on behalf of this project. The project proposed
subdividing a 1.5 acre parcel into three 0.5 acre parcels, building a single family home on each
property. The lots would receive water from the water main on Ridge Road and sewer would be
extended across the rear of the lots from the neighboring properties. There is no need for storm
water management plans because the lot sizes are too small. The developer requested a variance
to be 40 feet from the front property line and the Town approved. The County didn’t see the
variance for the site plan because it was already approved by the Town. Mr. Peters asked about
the neighbors. Mr. Sergey replied they’re east of an automotive shop and West of a ball park.

Motion: Mr. Guthrie made a motion to approve the site plan. Mr. Firendino seconded the
motion.
Ayes – 10 | Nays – 0 | Mr. Conklin Abstained. The board approved the special permit.


Motion: Mr. Guthrie made a motion to approve the subdivision. Mr. Hutteman seconded the
motion.
Ayes – 10 | Nays – 0 | Mr. Conklin Abstained. The board approved the subdivision.



                            7. Project: Town of Ontario, Domicello
Address: 6323 Knickerbocker Road
Type of Action(s): Area Variance, Subdivision, Site Plan
Chairperson Marini introduced the area variance, site plan, and subdivision applicant. Mr. Don
Lewis introduced the project as 7 townhouses to be built behind a commercial office that needs
to be subdivided from the parcels to allow for the residential uses. The area variance would allow
for an access road to go next to the commercial office, preserving parking for the office, before


continuing on to the townhouses. Mr. Burns asked what would happen if the commercial parcel
was sold separately from the townhouses, which would eliminate the townhouse residents’
access to their homes. Mr. Lewis said the easement would have to go with the sale of the
property. Mr. Guthrie asked what the zoning for the parcels are. Mr. Kornbau replied the parcels
were in Business Transitional and the Cannabis Overlay District. Mr. Guthrie asked why the area
variance was needed. Mr. Lewis replied it was because the parcels are 15,000 square feet when
the zoning required 18,000 square feet. The access for the townhouses couldn’t be placed on the
opposite side of the parcels because it would be too close to the Northern neighbor.

Motion: Mr. Burns made a motion to reject the area variance. Mr. Guthrie seconded the motion.
Ayes – 10 | Nays – 0 | Mr. Conklin Abstained. The area variance was rejected.
Motion: Mr. Burns made a motion to reject the subdivision. Mr. Guthrie seconded the motion.
Ayes – 10 | Nays – 0 | Mr. Conklin Abstained. The subdivision was rejected.

Motion: Mr. Burns made a motion to reject the site plan. Mr. Guthrie seconded the motion.
Ayes – 10 | Nays – 0 | Mr. Conklin Abstained. The site plan was rejected.


                              8. Project: Town of Sodus, Verizon
Address: 7863 E. Ridge Road
Type of Action(s): Amendment
Chairperson Marini introduced the project. No one was present to speak on behalf of this project.
The proposal would amend a site plan to move a cell tower into a wooded area near baseball
fields. Mr. Kornbau mentioned that the tower would have a break point to reduce the radius of
space that could be affected if the tower were to fall. Mr. Peters asked about the distance to the
property line. Mr. Kornbau replied that it was 165’ from the property line. Verizon would clear
some trees to make space for the tower.
Motion: Mr. Peters made a motion to approve the amendment to the site plan. Mr. Conklin
seconded the motion.
Ayes – 11 | Nays – 0 | The amendment was approved.


                         9. Project: Town of Walworth, Norbut Solar
Address: 1010 Atlantic Avenue
Type of Action(s): Site Plan, Special Permit, Subdivision
Chairperson Marini introduced the project. Mr. Nate Cobb and Mr. Victor Ciaccia were present
to speak on behalf of the project. The project would be a 5 Mw solar farm with battery storage on


site. The site abuts a DEC wetland, which the project avoids. The parcel is part of a larger project
owned by RG&E, which would provide the high-voltage transmission lines. The site has not
been actively farmed in 2 years, according to Mr. Cobb. There were MSG farm soils on site, but
Mr. Ciaccia pointed out that they have already been approved by Ag & Market. Chairperson
Marini asked about the setback requirements on the site plan. Mr. Cobb said they are requesting
a setback waiver from the Town of Walworth to accommodate their setback variance. The code
requires a 250 foot setback from residential uses while the Norbut Solar Farm would need to
have only 132 feet. The Town of Walworth has yet to approve of the waiver and Mr. Cobb said
they had no visual perspectives of how the final solar farm would look from the road, although
site plans were provided. Mr. Kornbau asked about the possibility of contamination and
Chairperson Marini asked about the panels breaking. Mr. Cobb said that there would be no
leaking into the wetland or solid waste. Mr. Guthrie asked about fire suppression systems. Mr.
Cobb said the battery storage would have water sprinklers and a fire suppression system that
would close off each battery section from the other to prevent all the cells from overheating at
the same time. Mr. Burns asked why the solar farm couldn’t change their configuration to avoid
the site variance waiver from the Town of Walworth. Mr. Cobb said they are waiting for the
Town’s approval of their setback waiver and that they were trying to maximize the energy
production potential of the solar farm. Mr. Cobb also said Norbut Solar was in negotiations with
a farmer to add land to the project to avoid the challenges with the setback, but that that sale is
still under negotiation. The setback waiver still is pending with the Town and additional land that
could be used to avoid the setback waiver hasn’t been finalized.
Motion: Mr. Burns made a motion to reject the site plan. Mr. Peters seconded the motion.
Ayes – 9 | Nays – 0 | Chairperson Marini and Mr. Hutteman abstained. The site plan was
rejected.
Motion: Mr. Burns made a motion to reject the special permit. Mr. Peters seconded the motion.
Ayes – 9 | Nays – 0 | Chairperson Marini and Mr. Hutteman abstained. The special permit was
rejected.
Motion: Mr. Burns made a motion to reject the subdivision. Mr. Peters seconded the motion.
Ayes – 9 | Nays – 0 | Chairperson Marini and Mr. Hutteman abstained. The subdivision was
rejected.



OTHER BUSINESS
With no other business presented, Chairperson Marini asked for a motion to adjourn. Mr.
Conklin made a motion. Mr. Milliman seconded the motion. All members were in favor. The
meeting adjourned at 8:05 P.M.
The next County Planning Board Meeting is on May 28, 2025 at 7:00 P.M.


Respectfully Submitted,

Eh. 9 Sag

Eli Levine, Planner
