Local Law No.:______ of 2026

           A LOCAL LAW EXTENDING THE TEMPORARY SIX MONTH
    MORATORIUM ON TIER II BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE WITHIN THE TOWN OF
                   LYSANDER UNTIL DECEMBER 19, 2026

     Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Lysander as follows:

   SECTION I. SHORT TITLE.
          This local law shall be cited as Local Law ____ of 2026 or the Town of Lysander

   moratorium on Tier II Battery Energy Storage Systems as referenced in Chapter 102 of the

   Code of The Town of Lysander.

   SECTION II. LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND INTENT
          The Town Board finds that it is in the best interest of the Town of Lysander to extend a

   moratorium on Tier II Battery Energy Storage Systems. The Town Board recognizes the

   potential impact of Tier II Battery Energy Storage Systems on the Town’s infrastructure,

   environment, public health and safety, and community character. The Town of Lysander is

   committed to ensuring the health, safety, and welfare of its residents, and to the proper regulation

   of land uses within the Town of Lysander.


          The Town Board has determined that it would be prudent to continue its’ moratorium of

   Tier II Battery Energy Storage Systems within the Town. This moratorium will provide sufficient

   time to study and address any concerns, including, but not limited to, zoning, environmental

   impacts, public safety, and economic implications resulting from Tier II Battery Energy Storage

   Systems, code provisions and comprehensive plan provisions in relation to same.
SECTION III. SCOPE OF CONTROL


           (a) For a period of 6 months from the effective date of this local law, no
               applications for Tier II Battery Energy Storage Systems shall be accepted by any
               board with
               appropriate authority in the Town, including the Town Board, Planning
               Board, and Zoning Board of Appeals.
           (b) Effective Date: This local Law applies to all applications for Tier II Battery
               Energy Storage Systems filed with the Town after adoption.

           (c) Each and every time period regulation and all default provisions otherwise
               applicable to the development, permits and/or approvals is hereby suspended
               and temporarily superseded by this Local law including but not limited to
               Section 276 of the New York State Town Law, during its period of
               effectiveness.
           (d) The jurisdiction of the Zoning Board of Appeals to act pursuant to Section 267-
               b of the New York State Town Law relative to relief from this Local Law is
               hereby suspended and temporarily superseded by this Local law for the purposes
               of any application for relief from this enactment during its period of
               effectiveness.


SECTION IV. APPEAL PROVISIONS
       The Town Board retains the power to vary or modify the application of any provision of

this local law upon its determination, in its legislative discretion, after public hearing on notice,

that this local law would impose extraordinary hardship upon a landowner, and that a variance

from this act will not adversely affect the health, safety and general welfare of the town. Any

request for an exception or variance shall be filed with Town Board, through the Town Clerk,

and shall include a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the processing of such application.
   All such applications shall be reviewed by the Town Board after a public hearing and final

decision on the appeal for relief. Any relief shall be granted through amendments to this local

law.


SECTION V. PENALTIES
       Any person, firm, entity or corporation that shall violate the terms and provisions of

this Local Law shall be subject to a penalty in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1000.00)

for each day such violation shall exist.

SECTION VI. VALIDITY
       The invalidity of a word, section, clause, paragraph, sentence, or part of provision of

this local law shall not affect the validity of any other part of this local law that can be given

effect without such invalid part or parts.


SECTION VII. SUSPENSION OF OTHER LAWS
       All state statutes and local ordinances or laws in conflict with the provisions of this

local law are hereby superseded and suspended during the effective period of this local law

as necessary to give this local law full force and effect during its effective period.



SECTION VIII. EFFECTIVE DATE
       This law shall take effect immediately as provided by the law, upon filing with the

Secretary of State and shall remain in force and effect for a period of 6 months from its

effective date.
