                                 LOCAL LAW 11 - 2025

                  A Local Law to extend the moratorium on the
      acceptance, processing and approval of applications and permits for
battery energy storage systems in the Village of Mamaroneck, amending Chapter
             342 of the Code of the Village of Mamaroneck (Zoning).

    BE IT ENACTED by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Mamaroneck as
                                  follows:

Section 1.

Chapter 342 of the Code of the Village of Mamaroneck is amended by adding section
342-84.6, as follows:

§ 342-84.6. Extension of temporary moratorium on battery energy storage systems.

   A. The Board of Trustees finds and determines that section 342-84.5 of the Code of
      the Village of Mamaroneck became effective on October 31, 2024; that since
      enacting the moratorium, the Board of Trustees has moved expeditiously to
      complete the studies necessary to effectuate the purposes of the moratorium and
      in furtherance of that effort has retained a planning consultant firm to analyze the
      concerns that are the basis for the moratorium; that the consulting firm has
      reviewed existing zoning and constraints within the Village, studied numerous
      industry and agency publications on battery energy storage systems, surveyed
      the regulation of battery energy storage systems in nearby municipalities,
      interviewed key stakeholders with specific experiences and knowledge of the
      Village, and identified potential zoning changes for the Board of Trustees to
      consider; that the consulting presented its findings and recommendations to the
      Board of Trustees on April 14, 2025; that unless extended, the moratorium will
      expire on August 1, 2025; and that it will likely take an additional three months to
      consider and adopt the legislation necessary to effectuate the planning
      recommendations.

   B. The moratorium period as provided in section 342-84.5 of the Code of the Village
      of Mamaroneck is extended until November 1, 2025.

Section 2.

If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this local law is, for any
reason, declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission,
legislative body or other authority of competent jurisdiction, the portion of the law
declared to be invalid will be deemed a separate, distinct and independent portion and
the declaration will not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof, which will
continue in full force and effect.



                                            1
Section 3.

This law is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by Municipal Home Rule Law
§ 10(1)(e)(3). It supersedes the provisions of the Village Law, including those provisions
which provide for the approval of a land use application on the basis of the passage of
time, and the Code of the Village of Mamaroneck, including those provisions which
authorize or require the approval of a land use application, to the extent that they are
inconsistent with this local law.

Section 4.

This local law will take effect immediately upon its filing in the office of the Secretary of
State in accordance with Municipal Home Rule Law § 27.




                                              2
