TOWN OF NEW CASTLE

200 South Greeley Avenue, Chappaqua, New York 10514 ¢ (914) 238-7269 © Fax (914) 238-2537 e cpapes@mynewcastleny.gov

Town Clerk/Receiver of Taxes
Christina Papes

Deputy Receiver of Taxes
Patricia Antonucci March 3, 2025

(914) 238-4773

Ms. Carolyn Van Wormer
NYS DOS

State Records

99 Washington Avenue
Albany, New York 12231

Re: Local Law No. 1 of 2025: A LOCAL LAW establishing a Six-Month
Moratorium Prohibiting The Review and Approval of Applications and Permits for
“Battery Energy Storage System” in the Town of New Castle.

Dear Ms. Van Wormer:

Attached please find Local Law No. 1 of 2025 for filing. Thank you for your
assistance in this matter.

Very truly yours,

Christina Papes
Town Clerk

enc.

The Town of New Castle is an Equal Opportunity/Alternative Action Employer



New York State Department of State

Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

Albany, NY 12231-0001

Local Law Filing www.dos.ny.gov

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)

Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

LJcounty [City [k]Town [Village

(Select ane:)

of New Castle

Local Law No. 1 of the year 20 25

Establishing A Six-Month Moratorium Prohibiting The Review and Approval of Applications

(Insert Title)
and Permits for “Battery Energy Storage System" in the Town of New Castle.

A local law

Be it enacted by the Town Board of the
(Name of Legislative Body)

[County [City [xjTown [Village

(Select one:)
of New Castle as follows:

Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of New Castle, Westchester County, State of New York as follows:

SECTION 1: PURPOSE

The purpose of this local law is to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of the Town of New
Castle and to maintain the status quo by temporarily suspending the processing of land use approvals as provided
herein and to further suspend the rights of land owners and their designees to obtain development approvals as
identified below for a period of six months from the date of the adoption of this local law while the Town Board
studies, analyzes and determines potential appropriate revisions and amendments to the Town Code regarding the
propriety of Battery Energy Storage Systems (as defined below).

(if additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-F1 (Rev. 04/14) Page 2 of 4



ALOCAL LAW ESTABLISHING A SIX-VONTH MORATORIUM PROHIBITING THE
REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS FOR “BATTERY
ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM” IN THE TOWN OF NEW CASTLE

Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of New Castle, Westchester County,
State of New York as follows:

SECTION 1: PURPOSE

The purpose of this local law is to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the Town of New Castle and to maintain the status quo by temporarily
suspending the processing of land use approvals as provided herein and to further
suspend the rights of land owners and their designees to obtain development approvals
as identified below for a period of six months from the date of the adoption of this local
law while the Town Board studies, analyzes and determines potential appropriate
revisions and amendments to the Town Code regarding the propriety of Battery Energy
Storage Systems (as defined below).



SECTION 2: DEFINITIONS

BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM:

One or more devices, assembled together, capable of storing energy in order to supply
electrical energy at a future time, not to include a stand-alone 12-volt car battery or an
electric motor vehicle.

A battery energy storage system is classified as a Tier 1 or Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage
System as follows:

(1) Tier 1 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity less
than or equal to GOOkWh and if in a room or enclosed area, consist of only a single energy
storage system technology.

(2) Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity
greater than 600kWh or are comprised of more than one (1) storage battery technology in
a room or enclosed area.

SECTION 3: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS

The Town of New Castle is a rural, largely residential community, having a population of
approximately 18,311 in the 2020 United States census. It includes the named hamlets of
Chappaqua and Millwood. According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a
total area of 23.5 square miles (61 km?), of which 23.2 square miles is land and 0.3
square miles, or 1.15%, is water. The hamlets of Chappaqua and Millwood have been the
historic centers of the Town since its founding.

Most of the Town consists of single-family homes, which account for over 90 percent of
the building lots. There are three economic centers, two of which are known as Census
Designated Places and include the Chappaqua Hamlet and the Millwood Hamlet. The
third area is a redeveloped corporate campus known as Chappaqua Crossing.

The Town is home to approximately 760 acres of town recreation and park lands,
approximately 330 acres of County Park land and approximately 310 acres are
designated as State Park land.

Several large water bodies are located partially or completely within the Town, including
the Croton Reservoir, Still Lake and Wampus Pond. The Town is also home to several
important secondary river systems, including the headwaters of the Saw Mill River, which
begins at the Bicentennial Park (Duck Pond Park) dam near the Chappaqua Hamlet.
National, State and Local wetlands exist throughout the Town, with many of the large
wetland systems located on protected park or open space lands. The Town lies within
several major watersheds including: the Croton, Pocantico, Saw Mill River and the Bronx
River watersheds. A little more than half of the Town is located in the East of Hudson
Watershed which is part of the land area contributing to New York City’s drinking water

supply.



The Town's geography is varied across multiple ecosystems with changing topography,
fauna and hydrography that are unique to the northeast. Across the Town, land elevation
varies from approximately 40 feet above sea level in the Croton River Valley in the
western corner of town, to approximately 775 feet in the eastern corner, near Byram Lake.
The Town contains geological rock outcroppings that add unique challenges to
construction processes in Town. Much of the undeveloped land is wooded, with the
eastern end and western ends of Town being more densely wooded by several large,
untouched forested areas.

Consistent with the goals of its comprehensive plan, the Town of New Castle seeks to
identify potential sites for renewable energy installations. One specific area of concern
and inquiry is Battery Energy Storage Systems within the Town. The Town has significant
safety concerns, especially following fire incidents at facilities across the state. The Town
intends to study the safety and security of these energy storage systems, including
thermal runaway, off gassing and toxicity, stranded energy, ways to prevent fires, prevent
by-product contamination, and ensure emergency responders have the necessary training
and information to prepare and deploy resources in the event of a fire. Relatedly, the
Town intends to study which areas in Town may be appropriate for such systems.

In short, the Town is very concerned with the detrimental effects of Battery Energy
Storage Systems on the health, safety, welfare and quality of life of the residents and
citizens of the Town of New Castle. Thus, the Town Board has decided to review the
Town Code and consider potential revisions thereto to address the Town’s concerns with
Battery Energy Storage Systems.

To allow the Town Board time to complete its review, draft proposed new legislation and
enact any such legislation, the Town Board deems it in the best interest of the general
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the Town of New Castle to impose a
moratorium prohibiting the review and approval of applications and permits for Battery
Energy Storage System in the Town of New Castle.

SECTION 4: MORATORIUM

Pursuant to the statutory authority vested in the Town to regulate and control land use and
to protect the health, safety and welfare of its residents, the Town Board of the Town of
New Castle hereby declares a six-month moratorium on the review and approval of new
as of yet unfiled and all pending applications for any and all land use approvals, including
site plan approvals, subdivision plats, building permits, special use permits and variances
(hereinafter “Land Use Approvals”) for all Battery Energy Storage Systems within the
Town. During the period of this local law:

- The Planning Board shall not accept any application, grant any approval to, or
continue the review of a subdivision plat, site plan, special use permit or other
permit that includes the permitting, construction and/or development of a
Battery Energy Storage System within the Town.

- The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not accept any application or grant any
approval for a variance or other permit that would have as a result the
permitting, construction and development of a Battery Energy Storage System



within the Town.

- The Building Department shall not accept any building permit application or
grant any Certificate of Occupancy or Certificate of Compliance for a Battery
Energy Storage System within the Town.

- Projects currently under construction and projects that have received final
approvals are not subject to this moratorium.

SECTION 5: TERM

The moratorium imposed by this Local Law shall be effective six months from the effective
date of this Local Law.

SECTION 6: HARDSHIP WAIVER

A. Should any owner of property affected by this Local Law or any applicant with an
application currently pending before any Board of the Town suffer any unnecessary
and extraordinary hardship due to the enactment and application of this Local Law,
then the owner of said property may apply to the Town Board of the Town of New
Castle in writing for a variance from strict compliance with this Local Law upon
submission of proof of such unnecessary hardship. For the purposes of this Local
Law, unnecessary or extraordinary hardship shall not be:

a. the mere concern that regulations may be changed or adopted, or that the
Plan may be amended; or

b. the mere delay in being permitted to make an application or waiting for a
decision on the application for a variance, special permit, site plan,
subdivision, or other permit during the period of the moratorium imposed by
this Local Law.

B. An application for an exception based upon unnecessary or extraordinary hardship
shall be filed with the Town Clerk no earlier than the effective date of this Local
Law, including a fee of one thousand and five hundred 00/100 Dollars ($1,500.00)
for each tax map parcel claimed to be subject to unnecessary or extraordinary
hardship, by the landowner or the applicant upon the consent of the landowner.
The application shall provide a recitation of the specific facts that are alleged to
support the claim of unnecessary or extraordinary hardship and shall contain such
other information and/or documentation as the Town Board, shall prescribe as
necessary for the Town Board to be fully informed with respect to the application.

C. Procedure. Upon submission of a written application to the Town Clerk by the
property owner seeking a hardship waiver from the provisions of this Local Law, the
Town Board shall, within forty-five (45) days of receipt of a completed application,
schedule a Public Hearing on said application upon five (5) days’ written notice in
the official newspaper of the Town of New Castle. At said Public Hearing, the
property owner and any other parties wishing to present evidence with regard to
the application shall have an opportunity to be heard, and the Town Board shall,
within thirty (30) days of the close of said Public Hearing, render its decision either



granting, denying, granting in part or denying in part, the application for a hardship
waiver from the strict requirements of this Local Law. If the Town Board
determines that a property owner will suffer an unnecessary or extraordinary
hardship if this Locai Law is strictly applied to a particular property, then the Town
Board shall vary the application to this Local Law to the minimum extent necessary
to provide the property owner relief from strict compliance with this Local Law.

D. Standard of Review. In reviewing an application for an exception based upon a
claim of necessary or extraordinary hardship, the Town Board shall consider the
following criteria:

a. The extent to which the proposed development activity would cause
significant environmental harm, adversely impact surrounding natural
resource areas, public health, comfort or safety concerns and/or have a
negative impact upon the Town.

b. Whether the moratorium will expose a property owner or applicant to
substantial monetary liability to a third person or would leave the property
owner or applicable completely unable, after a thorough review of alternative
solutions, to have a reasonable alternative use of the property.

SECTION 7: HOME RULE

Nothing in this Local Law is intended or shall be construed to limit the home rule
authority of the Town under State Law or to limit the Town’s discretion in setting fees and
charges in connection with any applications requiring Town approval.

SECTION 8: SEVERABILITY

If any part or provision of this Local Law or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance be adjudged invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment
shall be confined in its operation to the part or provision or application directly involved in
the controversy in which judgment shall have been rendered and shall not affect or impair
the validity of the remainder of this Local Law or the application thereof to other persons
or circumstances, and the Town Board of the Town of New Castle hereby declares that it
would have passed this Local Law or the remainder thereof had such invalid application
or invalid provision been apparent.

SECTION 9: REPEAL
All ordinances, local laws and parts thereof inconsistent with this Local Law are hereby
repealed to the extent of such inconsistency.

SECTION 10: SEQRA

This local law constitutes a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality Review
Act inasmuch as it constitutes the adoption of a moratorium on land development or
construction. As such this project is not subject to review under the State Environmental
Quality Act.



SECTION 11: EFFECTIVE DATE
This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the Secretary of
State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.



(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.) 1

| hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 2025 of
the (EXON KORY(Town)(Mitage) of New Castle was duly passed by the
New Castle Town Board on February 11, 2025 _, in accordance with the applicable

(Name of Legislative Body}
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
ief Executive Officer*.)

| hereby‘certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislativé\ody)

(repassed after disapprqval) by the and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on 200 , in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
| hereby certify that the local law annexed héreto, designated as local law No. of 20 of

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)

(repassed after disapproval) by the on 20
(Elective Chief Executive Office

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandato ermissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(Special)(annual) election held on

20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4, (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition.was filed requesting referendum.)
| hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the

on 20 ; roved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the on . Such local
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of

20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto locai laws or ordinances.

DOS-0238-f1 (Rev. 04/14) Page 3 of 4



5. local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
| hereby Gextify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of

Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting

the Municipal Home
election held on 20 , became operative.

thereon at the (special)(gené

6. (County local law concerning adoption
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, dé
the County of State of New York;
November 200 , pursuant to subdivisions 5 an
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of thé
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at sa

harter.)
ignated as Jocal law No. of 20 of
ving been submitted to the electors at the General Election of

of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
ities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
eneral election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an apprdptiate certification.)
| further certify that | have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and ¢ he same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner

paragraph , above.

f the county legislative body, ‘City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body

Date: Mare, 3, 2025

DOS-0239-F1 (Rev. 04/14) Page 4 of 4

