                              LOCAL LAW NO. _____ OF 2025
                                  TOWN OF MENTZ

  A LOCAL LAW ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY LAND USE MORATORIUM
PROHIBITING BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS WITHIN THE TOWN OF
                            MENTZ

Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Mentz as follows:

SECTION I. TITLE

This Local Law Shall Be Known As “A Local Law Establishing a Temporary Land Use
Moratorium Prohibiting Battery Energy Storage Systems within the Town of Mentz.”

SECTION II. AUTHORITY

The Town Board of the Town of Mentz, pursuant to the authority of Municipal Home Rule Law
of the State of New York, hereby enacts said article as follows.

SECTION III. PURPOSE AND INTENT

The purpose of this local law is to temporarily halt development of battery energy storage
systems, for a period of up to one (1) year, while the Town considers zoning changes and the
enactment of zoning measures to specifically address the matters of community concern.

The Town Board recognizes and acknowledges that the Town needs to study and analyze many
considerations that affect the preparation of local legislation to regulate battery energy storage
systems.

In the coming months, the Town will be diligently working towards the development of
regulations that will address, in a careful manner, the establishment, placement, construction,
enlargement and erection of battery energy storage systems on a Town-wide basis and to adopt
zoning regulations for provisions to specifically regulate same.

SECTION IV. DEFINITIONS

BATTERY (IES): A single cell or a group of cells connected together electrically in series, in
parallel, or a combination of both, which can charge, discharge, and store energy
electrochemically. For the purposes of this law, batteries utilized in consumer products are
excluded from these requirements.

BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: An electronic system that
protects energy storage systems from operating outside their safe operating parameters and
disconnects




                                                1
temperatures or other conditions are detected.

BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM: One or more devices, assembled together, capable
of storing energy in order to supply electrical energy at a future time, not to include a stand-alone
12-volt car battery or an electric motor vehicle. A battery energy storage system is classified as a
Tier I or Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage System as follows:

       A.      Tier I Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity less
               than or equal to 600kWh and, if in a room or enclosed area, consist of only a
               single energy storage system technology.

       B.      Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity greater
               than 600kWh or are comprised of more than one storage battery technology in a
               room or enclosed area.

CELL: The basic electrochemical unit, characterized by an anode and a cathode, used to receive,
store, and deliver electrical energy.

SECTION V. SCOPE OF CONTROLS

A.     During the effective period of this Local Law:

1.      The Town Board of the Town shall not grant any approvals that would have as the result
the establishment, placement, construction, enlargement or erection of battery energy storage
systems within the Town.

2.      The Town Planning Board shall not grant any preliminary or final approval to a
subdivision plat, site plan, special use permit or other permit that would have as a result the
establishment, placement, construction, enlargement or erection of battery energy storage
systems within the Town.

3.      The Town Zoning Board of Appeals shall not grant any variance or other permit for any
use that would result in the establishment, placement, construction, enlargement or erection of
battery energy storage systems within the Town.

4.      The Building Inspector/Code Enforcement Officer of the Town shall not issue any permit
that would result in the establishment, placement, construction, enlargement or erection of
battery energy storage systems within the Town.

5.     The Town Board of the Town reserves the right to direct the Town Building
Inspector/Code Enforcement Officer to revoke or rescind any building permits or certificates of
occupancy issued in violation of this Local Law.

SECTION VI. NO CONSIDERATION OF NEW APPLICATIONS

No applications for construction affected by this Local Law or for approvals for a site plan,
subdivision, variance, special use permit or other permits shall be considered by any board,
officer or agency of the Town while the moratorium imposed by this Local Law is in effect.

SECTION VII. TERM

The moratorium imposed by this Local Law shall be in effect for a period of one (1) year from
the effective date of this Local Law.

SECTION VIII. PENALTIES

Any person, firm or corporation that shall establish, place, construct, enlarge or erect any battery
energy storage systems in violation of the provisions of this Local Law or shall otherwise violate
any of the provisions of this Local Law shall be subject to:

       A.      Such penalties as may otherwise be provided by applicable local laws,
               ordinances, rules, regulations of the Town for violations; and

        B.     Injunctive relief in favor of the Town to cease any and all such actions which
               conflict with this Local Law and, if necessary, to remove any construction that
               may have taken place in violation of this Local Law.

SECTION IX. VALIDITY

The invalidity of any provision of this Local Law shall not affect the validity of any other
provision of this Local Law that can be given effect without such invalid provision.

SECTION X. SEVERABILITY AND VALIDITY

In the event that any word, phrase of part of this local law shall be declared unconstitutional, the
same shall be severed and separated from the remainder of this local law and shall not impact the
remainder of said local law which shall remain in full force and effect.

SECTION XI. EFFECTIVE DATE

This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the Secretary of State of
New York as provided in Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.
