                                   TOWN OF CHAUTAUQUA
                              LOCAL LAW NO. 4 FOR THE YEAR 2024

     A LOCAL LAW EXTENDING MORATORIUM ON COMMERCIAL BATTERY ENERGY
                             STORAGE SYSTEMS


Section 1.      Enactment and Title.
The Town Board of the Town of Chautauqua does hereby enact the Town of Chautauqua Moratorium on
Battery Energy Storage Systems Law. This Local Law shall impose a moratorium on applications or
proceedings for applications for, the review of applications for, or the issuance of approvals or permits for
the construction of any Battery Energy Storage System, as defined herein.

The capitalized terms in the foregoing sentence, and as used throughout this local law, shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them:

        Commercial Battery Energy Storage System- One or more devices, assembled together,
        capable of storing energy produced by a commercial wind or solar energy conversion system,
        in order to supply electrical energy at a future time, having an aggregate energy capacity greater
        than 600kWH or comprised of more than one storage battery technology in a room or enclosed
        area.

        Applicant- All landowners and all those claiming through or on behalf of the owner(s), whether
        by license, lease, easement, contract, or by owner's designation as an agent for purposes of
        making any application or any land use review or approval, whether for a permit or otherwise.

Section 2.       Authorization, Purpose and Intent.
Pursuant to the authority and provisions of the New York State Constitution, and Section 10 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and the statutory powers vested in the Town of Chautauqua to regulate and
control land use and to protect the health, safety and welfare of its residents, the Town Board (the
“Board”) of the Town of Chautauqua hereby declares a moratorium on applications or proceedings for
applications for, the review of applications, or the issuance of approvals or permits for the construction of
Commercial Battery Energy Storage Systems within the Town of Chautauqua (the “Town”), lasting
through September 1, 2025.

This moratorium will allow time for Town officials to review, clarify, amend, and update the Town's
Regulations for commercial battery energy storage systems, particularly with regard to where such
development may be located in the Town. Additionally, this moratorium will allow the Town to adopt
such other regulations as may be necessary to promote and preserve the health, safety and welfare of the
Town and its citizens.

Section 3.      Scope of Controls.
During the effective period of this Local Law:

A.      Neither the Town Board nor the Planning Board shall conduct any review or consider or grant
        any special permit or other approval that will result in the approval, establishment or construction
        of any Battery Energy Storage System within the Town.




Continued from pg. 2 of 4 for LL4 of 2024                                                        Page 1 of 6
B.      To the extent permitted by law, this moratorium shall supersede all relevant provisions of the
        New York State Town Law, the New York State Building Code, any relevant Town local law and
        any other applicable law, rule or regulation, that may be in conflict herewith. If any ambiguity or
        conflict exists, this local law shall govern and the presumption shall in each case be that the
        moratorium is in effect.

Section 4.       No Consideration of New, Revised, or Renewal Applications.
No new, revised, or renewal applications shall be accepted for filing, review, or consideration, and no site
plans, authorizations, special permits, permits, building permits, variances, waivers or other approvals that
purport to allow or advance the development, siting, or construction of any Battery Energy Storage
System shall be undertaken, reviewed, considered or issued by any board, officer, employee or agent of
the Town, except as specifically set forth in Section 10 of this local law. Nor shall any language or term in
this moratorium effect, or be construed to result in, any default approval, and any matter now pending
shall be stayed in place during the pendency of this moratorium, with all deadlines or other timelines
suspended for the same number of days that this moratorium is in effect.

Section 5.       Term.
The moratorium imposed by this Local Law shall be in effect until September 1, 2025 starting from the
effective date of this Local Law. This moratorium may be extended, or rescinded or removed, by local
law.

Section 6.      Location.
The moratorium imposed by this Local Law shall apply to the territorial limits of the Town of
Chautauqua. Any dispute as to whether a property is encompassed within the geographic area detailed
above shall be resolved by reference to the official tax maps of Chautauqua County and the official New
York corporate boundary maps for the Town of Chautauqua.

Section 7.      Penalties.
The following provisions shall apply generally, and the violation of this Local Law shall allow and permit
enforcement in any one or more of the following manners:

A.      When any term, provision, or requirement of this Local Law is violated the Enforcement Officer
        may issue a written notice of violation to the Applicant (or other Person in violation hereof). The
        notice of violation shall contain; (i) the name and address of the Person alleged to have violated
        this Local Law; (ii) the address, when available, or a description of the building, structure or
        parcel upon which the violation occurred or is occurring; (iii) a brief statement specifying the
        nature of the violation; (iv) a statement of the fine or penalty that may or could be assessed
        against any Person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and (v) a clear statement
        identifying whether the notice commences or may commence a civil or criminal proceeding. The
        failure to comply with a written notice of violation by correcting the violation is in itself a
        separate violation of this Local Law and may be further enforced as such. In addition, Executive
        Law § 382 may be duly enforced separately from any such notice, and both notices may take the
        form of a single notice which must, in addition to the above, contain the information and be
        served as required by said § 382.

B.      The Enforcement Officer may issue stop work orders for violations of this Local Law. Any
        Person receiving a stop work order shall be required to halt all clearing, grading, construction,
        and any other or related activities, until the Enforcement Officer or a court of competent
        jurisdiction allows work to re-commence.




Continued from pg. 2 of 4 for LL4 of 2024                                                        Page 2 of 6
C.      Town may also maintain actions or proceedings in the name of the Town in a court of
        competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with, restrain by injunction the violation of any
        provision or requirement of this Local Law, including to prevent, enjoin, correct, enforce, or
        abate any violation of, or non-conformance with, any provision or requirement of this local law
        or the terms and conditions set forth in any waiver or approval issued hereunder. In any such
        proceeding the Town shall not be required to: (i) prove the lack of an adequate remedy at law;
        or (ii) to post a bond or other undertaking as a condition or requirement for any preliminary,
        interim, or permanent restraining order or injunction. No such action or proceeding shall be
        commenced without the appropriate authorization from the Town Board.

D.      This Local Law may be enforced civilly or criminally by seeking fines, penalties, and like
        punishments to deter future violations and sanction offenders. All provisions of New York law
        and process generally applicable to misdemeanors shall apply to any criminal proceeding brought
        upon any violations of this Local Law, including for purposes of conferring jurisdiction. The
        following civil and criminal fines and penalties shall apply to any violation of the
        requirements or terms of this Local Law:

        1.      For a first offense, any Person that violates any of the provisions of this Local Law shall
                be (i) guilty of a violation and subject to a fine of not more than $500, or (ii) subject to a
                civil penalty of not more than $500 to be recovered by the Town in a civil action. Every
                such Person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each week that such
                violation, disobedience, omission, neglect or refusal shall continue. Similarly, a separate
                civil penalty shall apply and be assessable for each week that such violation,
                disobedience, omission, neglect or refusal shall continue.

        2.      For a second offense, being any violation that is found to have occurred within 2 years
                of any prior civil or criminal determination of any violation of this Local Law, a Person
                shall be (i) guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not more than
                $2,500, or (2) subject to a civil penalty of not more than $2,500 to be recovered by the
                Town in a civil action. Every such Person shall be deemed guilty of a separate
                unclassified misdemeanor for each week that such violation, disobedience, omission,
                neglect, or refusal shall continue. Similarly, a separate civil penalty shall apply and be
                assessable for each week that such violation, disobedience, omission, neglect, or refusal
                shall continue.

        3.      The above fines are in addition to any penalty, fine, or sentence allowed or imposable
                pursuant to said Executive Law § 382.

E.      Upon any violation of this Local Law by an Applicant or any Person, the Town may, and the
        Enforcement Officer shall, decline and refuse to issue any approvals, endorsements,
        certifications, building permits, certificates of occupancy, certificates of compliance, and any
        similar or other document or approval until the Applicant or Person rectifies and cures such
        violation.

F.      Any Person violating this Local Law may be required to restore land to its prior or undisturbed
        condition. If restoration is not undertaken within a reasonable time after notice, the Town may
        take necessary corrective action, the cost of which shall become a lien upon the property until
        paid. In addition, the Town may commence any one or more civil proceedings in the Town
        Court, or any other court or tribunal of competent jurisdiction, to recover the costs of such
        restoration.




Continued from pg. 2 of 4 for LL4 of 2024                                                          Page 3 of 6
G.      For purposes of this Local Law the Justice Court of the Town is hereby vested and imbued with
        jurisdiction to: (i) issue administrative or other warrants in compliance with the New York
        Criminal Procedure Law and administrative codes of the State of New York; and (ii) hear and
        adjudicate allegations relating to the criminal or civil violation of this Local Law and to
        thereafter, if appropriate, impose any fine, penalty, or sanction.

H.      Criminal matters arising in relation to enforcement matters under this local law shall be and be
        classified as offenses per the following guidelines: (i) first offenses shall be deemed violations;
        (ii) second offenses shall be deemed unclassified misdemeanors; and (iii) violations of Executive
        Law § 382 shall be classified as set forth by New York State in such § 382.

I.      No remedy or penalty specified in this local law shall be the exclusive remedy available to the
        Town to address any violation of, or non-compliance with, the requirements of this local law.
        The rights and remedies of the Town are independent of each other and cumulative. The grant
        of any right or remedy in this Local Law is in addition to, and not in limitation of or in
        substitution for any other right or remedy of the Town, whether sounding in law, equity, or
        admiralty. Further, the election by the Town of any one right or remedy does not forestall or
        prevent the simultaneous or future election of any other right or remedy, whether relating to
        enforcement, sentencing, or otherwise.

Section 8. Exemptions and Non-Conforming Uses.
Notwithstanding any provision hereof to the contrary, any Battery Energy Storage System that has
already been issued all necessary approvals or permits from the Town Board or the Planning Board (the
“Town Approvals”) may continue such projects and such support activities that are being conducted in
the Town as of the effective date of this Local Law, so long as such supporting activities are in all
respects being conducted in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and any conditions of
approval, including all Town Approvals. Such limited right to proceed when Town Approvals have been
issued shall include the right to apply for and obtain a building permit, so long as the same is or are in
conformance with any existing Town Approvals.

Any expansion of a lawful, pre-existing, non-conforming use shall not be grandfathered under this
Section and instead shall in all respects be prohibited as contemplated by Section 3 hereof.
“Grandfathered” and allowed lawful pre-existing uses neither have nor possess any right to expand such
non-conforming use whether above or below ground, and no such right shall be deemed, construed, or
implied to exist.

Section 9. Validity.
The invalidity of any provision of this Local Law shall not affect the validity of any other provision of
this Local Law that can be given effect without such invalid provision.

Section 10. Hardship.
The Town Board of the Town is hereby authorized to accept and review (after public notice and hearing
and in accordance with the requirements of law and of this Local Law) requests for a waiver application
of the provisions of this Local Law by persons aggrieved hereby.

No such waiver shall be granted by the Town Board without a showing by the Applicant that applicable
regulations and restrictions have caused unnecessary hardship.




Continued from pg. 2 of 4 for LL4 of 2024                                                      Page 4 of 6
A.      Unnecessary Hardship. In order to prove such unnecessary hardship the Applicant is required to
        demonstrate to the Town Board that, with respect to every permitted use under Town land use,
        each of the following four criteria is satisfied: (i) the Applicant cannot realize a reasonable return
        on the entire parcel of property, and such lack of return is substantial as demonstrated by
        competent financial evidence; (ii) the alleged hardship relating to the property in question is
        unique, and does not apply to a substantial portion of the district or neighborhood; (iii) the
        neighborhood; and (iv) the alleged hardship has not been self-created.

B.      Reasonable Rate of Return. In evaluating whether the Applicant can realize a reasonable rate of
        return, the Town Board must examine whether the entire original or expanded property
        holdings of the Applicant are incapable of producing a reasonable rate of return (and not just
        the site of the proposed development project). No waiver shall be granted unless, in addition to
        satisfying all other applicable provisions of law and this Law, the Town Board finds that the
        Applicant has clearly demonstrated by detailed “dollar and cents” proof, the inability to obtain a
        reasonable return for the entire parcel (and not just the site of the proposed project) and for
        each and every permitted use in the area of the Town the property is located.

C.      Unique Hardship. No waiver shall be granted unless, in addition to satisfying all other applicable
        provisions of the law and this Law, the Town Board finds that the entire parcel of which the
        project is a part possesses unique characteristics that distinguish it from other properties in the
        area.

D.       Essential Character of the Neighborhood. In making its determination, of whether the proposed
        development project will alter the essential character of the neighborhood, the Town Board
        shall take into account factors that are of vital importance to the citizens of the Town including
        without limitation: (i) the rural residential and agricultural character of the Town, (ii) its
        irreplaceable recreation, historic, and tourism sites, (iii) the extent of hazard to life, limb or
        property may result from the proposed development project, (iv) health impacts, (v) the social
        and economic impacts of traffic congestion, noise, dust, odors, emissions, solid waste
        generation and other nuisances, (vi) the impact on property values, and (viii) whether the
        Applicant will engage in the type of development that will result in degradation to the air quality,
        water quality or scenic or other natural resources of the Town. In order to find that the proposed
        development project does not alter the essential character of the neighborhood, the Board shall
        interpret the public interest in said essential character of the neighborhood to require, at a
        minimum, that the project will not do any of the following: (x) pose a threat to the public safety,
        including public health, water quality or air quality, (y) cause an extraordinary public expense, or
        (z) create a nuisance.

E.      Self-Created Hardship. The Town Board may find that the Applicant suffers from a self-created
        hardship in the event that the Board finds that (i) the Applicant’s inability to obtain a reasonable
        return on the property as a whole results from having paid too much or from a poor investment
        decision; (ii) the Applicant previously divided the property and is left with only a portion which
        suffers from some unique conditions for which relief is sought and which did not apply to the
        parcel as a whole; (iii) when the Applicant purchased the property, he or she knew or should
        have known the property was subject to the land use restrictions; or (iv) that the Applicant
        transferred or obtained property rights with only a unilateral expectation of development or
        investment character, and it shall be material to this question to examine the degree to which
        opposed to in fee (actual acquisition of fee simple title), and whether the anticipated income,
        profits, or receipts were conditional, contingent, or guaranteed.




Continued from pg. 2 of 4 for LL4 of 2024                                                         Page 5 of 6
If the Town Board grants a waiver from the provisions of this Local Law to the Applicant, the Applicant
shall be required to comply with all provisions of the Town’s then applicable land use regulations and
other laws and regulations, together with any amendments to such law or regulations which may be
enacted during the term of this Local Law. Any waiver that is granted shall grant only the minimum
waiver that the Town Boards deems necessary and adequate to address the unnecessary hardship proven
by the Applicant, and at the same time preserve and protect the character of the neighborhood and health,
safety, and welfare of the community.


Section 11. Effective Date.
This Local Law shall take effect immediately.




Continued from pg. 2 of 4 for LL4 of 2024                                                    Page 6 of 6
