New York State Department of State

Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

Albany, NY 12231-0001

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)

Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

County
Che of Livingston
Town
Millage
Local Law No. 4 ofthe year __ 2024
A local law to extend a temporary three (3) month moratorium on Battery
Energy Storage Systems within the Town of Livingston
Be it enacted by the Town Board of the
(Name of Legislative Body)
County
City of Livingston as follows:
Town
Village
Section 1. TITLE. This local law shall be known as Local Law No. 4 of the Year 2024, a local law

Section 2.

extending a three (3) month moratorium on Battery Energy Storage Systems

LEGISLATIVE INTENT.

The Town of Livingston presently has a zoning law to regulate land use within the Town.
The Town has an ongoing review of possible regulations for Battery Energy Storage Systems
and desires to draft a zoning law amendment that would provide for proper regulation of such
projects and installations. The Town Board desires to extend the moratorium on Battery
Energy Storage Systems until a revised law is adopted. The moratorium extension will
enable town officials to continue to comprehensively address the issues involved with the
Battery Energy Storage Systems that are becoming increasingly developed in our rural
community, and ensure Battery Energy Storage Systems are placed and sited in harmony with
the surrounding uses and areas of the town.

The Town of Livingston adopted Local Law #2 of 2024 enacting a three-month moratorium

on Battery Energy Storage Systems on January 11, 2024, said moratorium is set to expire on
April 11, 2024. The Town has been undertaking a review and study of the issue relating to

(1)


Section 3.

Section 4.

Battery Energy Storage Systems and the current zoning law as it applies to the use within the
town. The Town desires to extend the moratorium to allow for further study.

The Town Board finds that pursuant to 6 NYCRR 617.5(c)(30) the adoption of a moratorium
on land development or construction is a Type II action under the New York State
Environmental Quality Review Act (“SEQRA”) which has been determined not to have a
significant impact on the environment. Further, this moratorium is enacted by the Town
Board pursuant to its authority to adopt local laws under Article IX of the New York State
Constitution and Municipal Home Rule Law Section 10.

This moratorium is exempted from referral to the Columbia County Planning Board pursuant
to the New York General Municipal Law 239-m by adoption of the “Opt Out” resolution,
stating that land use moratoria for a period of three months or less are exempt from referral,
and are of local concern.

DEFINITIONS.

BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM - A rechargeable energy storage system
consisting of one or more devices, including batteries, battery chargers, controls, power
conditioning systems and associated electrical equipment, assembled together, capable of
storing energy in order to provide electrical energy at a future time, not to include a stand-
alone 12-volt car battery or an electric motor vehicle.

MORATORIUM

A. The Town Board hereby enacts a moratorium which shall prohibit application for or Town
review of Battery Energy Storage Systems. The moratorium is hereby imposed from the
period of April 11, 2024, commencing upon the expiration of Local Law #1 of 2024, fora
period of three (3) months, it being the intent of the Town Board to have no gap or lapse of
said moratorium. ‘

B. This moratorium shall be in effect for a period of three (3) months from the effective date
of this local law and shall expire on the earlier of (i) the date three (3) months from said
effective date, unless renewed: or (ii) the enactment by the Town Board of a resolution
indicating the Town Board is satisfied that the need for the moratorium no longer exists.

C. This moratorium shall apply to all zoning districts and all real property within the
Town.

D. Pursuant to this moratorium, the Planning Board shall not review any applications for
Battery Energy Storage Systems, nor shall it grant any preliminary or final approval for any

site plan or special use permit.

E. Pursuant to this moratorium, the Building Inspector shall not issue Building Permits or
Certificates of Occupancy for any Battery Energy Storage Systems.

(2)


F. Pursuant to this moratorium, the Zoning Board shall not grant any approvals for any
variance that involves the construction, reconstruction, relocation, enlargement or
modification of any site intended to be used for Battery Energy Storage Systems.

(3)


Section 5.

Section 6.

Section 7.

RELIEF FROM PROVISIONS OF THIS LOCAL LAW.

A. If any owner of property within the Town seeks relief from this moratorium to enable
such owner to apply for or seek continued review of, activities otherwise prohibited under
this moratorium, such owner shall make application to the Town Board.

B. It shall be the burden of the owner for such relief to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Town Board, upon clear and convincing evidence, that an unjust result and extraordinary
financial hardship will occur to the property owner if such relief is not granted, and such
showing must demonstrate that the proposed activity for which relief is sought shall be
consistent with the reasonable and orderly development of the Town.

C. Such relief shall be the subject of a public hearing before said Town Board.

D. It shall be within the discretion of the Town Board to grant, in whole or in part, or deny,
the application for such relief from the terms of this moratorium.

PENALTIES.

Any person, partnership, association, corporation, landowner, lessee or licensee which shall
construct, reconstruct, relocate, enlarge or modify any site to be used for a Battery Energy
Storage Systems in violation of the provisions of this local law, shall be subject to:

A. A fine not to exceed One Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($1,000.00) per individual and
not exceeding Five Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($5,000.00) as to a corporation,
partnership, or association, or imprisonment for a term not to exceed one (1) year, or both;

B. A civil penalty in the amount of One Hundred and 00/100 Dollars ($100.00) for each
day that such violation shall exist;

C. Injunctive relief in favor of the Town to cease any and all such actions which conflict
with this local law and, if necessary, to remove any constructions, improvements, or related
items or byproducts which may have taken place in violation of this local law.

ENFORCEMENT.

This local law shall be enforced by the Zoning Enforcement Officer of the Town of
Livingston or such other zoning enforcement individual(s) as designated by the Town Board.
It shall be the duty of the enforcement individual(s) to advise the Town Board of all matters
pertaining to the enforcement of this local law and to keep all records necessary and
appropriate to the office and to file same in the office of the Town Clerk.

(4)


Section 8.

Section 9.

VALIDITY & SEVERABILITY.

If any section or part of this local law is declared invalid or unconstitutional, it shall not be
held to invalidate or impair the validity, force or effect of any other section of this local law.

EFFECTIVE DATE.

This local law shall take effect immediately upon passage, and then shall be filled with the
New York State Department of State and shall remain in force and effect for a period of three
(3) months from the date of such filing, unless extended or rescinded by subsequent local
law.

(5)


(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 4 of _2024 of the
Town of Livingston was duly passed by the __ Town Board on in

(Name of Legislative Body)

accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

*Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if
there be none, the chairman of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such
officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

(6)


(if any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)

I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that
the same is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in

the manner indicated in paragraph 1, above.
—[. Vi / 6 Lol

Tammy'Molinski, Tawn Clerk

(Seal) Date: ip | u ( oY

©)
