TOWN OF FORT ANN
COUNTY OF WASHINGTON, STATE OF NEW —
Local Law No. 2 of 2026

A LOCAL LAW PROHIBITING COMMERCIAL
BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS
IN THE TOWN OF FORT ANN

Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Fort Ann (“Town”), County of
Washington, State of New York (“State”) as follows:

Section 1. Authority and Purpose.

This local law is adopted pursuant to Article I, Section 19 and Article IX of the New York State
Constitution and Articles 2 and 3 of the Municipal Home Rule Law. These provisions affirm the
right of all New Yorkers to clean air and water, and a healthful environment, and specifically
authorize, the Town to adopt local laws that promote health, safety and general welfare of the
community.

Section 2. Intent.

Commercial battery energy storage systems pose a unique safety hazard with regard to the
technology used in such batteries and the tendency of the batteries to catch fire. The Town relies
upon its volunteer fire companies to combat fires in the Town and in the evacuation of homeowners
when necessary. Most commercial battery energy storage systems are remote monitored meaning
there is little or no notice provided to the Town and first responders when such fires occur.
Moreover, with one exception there is no public water available for fire fighting, which places
additional burdens on the volunteer fire companies. The only place where public water is available
within the Town, is in close proximity to the Village of Fort Ann. Were an incident to occur in
proximity to available public water, the Town’s emergency response plan would be rendered
meaningless since the area that would need to be evacuated would include all designed shelters
and first responders.

Further, the technology and equipment necessary for local fire districts to be able to suppress or
appropriately respond to a fire, should one occur, taking precautions related to air emissions and
deterring any necessary fire suppression chemicals from impacting surface and groundwater, and
addressing the adequacy of standards for siting these facilities, cannot be understated. The natural
resources of the Town, specifically surface and groundwater are key assets necessitating their
protection for the residents and property owners of the Town.

The purpose of this local law is to protect the public health, safety and welfare by prohibiting the
development of commercial battery energy storage systems within the Town of Fort Ann.

Section 3. Definitions.

As used in this local law, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated:


BATTER(IES): a single cell or a group of cells connected together electrically in series, in parallel,
or a combination of both, which can charge, discharge, and store energy electrochemically. For
the purposes of this local law, batteries utilized in consumer products are excluded from this local
law.

COMMERCIAL BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM: A rechargeable energy storage
system consisting of electrochemical storage batteries, battery charge, controls, power
conditioning systems and associated electrical equipment with an aggregate energy capacity
greater than 600kWh, designed to store, use and/or distribute stored energy produced by any
source.

Section 4. Commercial Battery Energy Storage Systems, a Prohibited Use.

The Town Board of the Town of Fort Ann hereby makes the following findings with respect to
Commercial Battery Storage Systems:

A. Commercial Battery Energy Storage System (CBESS) failures have the potential to
undermine public health, safety and welfare. CBESS facilities will likely be situated in
locations without access to adequate water supplies for fire suppression, and will overtax
the Town’s volunteer fire companies and emergency medical services. CBESS failures
including thermal runaway and fires will produce a range of toxic gasses and particulates,
including, but not limited to several highly toxic compounds including benzene, toluene,
styrene, biphenyl, hydrogen fluoride and many others. The probability of the occurrence
of such failures is reasonable based recent events. In 2023, commercial and/or utility
battery energy storage systems in Jefferson, Orange, and Suffolk Counties all had fires. In
January of 2025, there was a fire at a lithium battery storage plant in Moss Landing
California. The Moss Landing fire burned for days, forcing the evacuation of over 1,500
residents and requiring local schools to be shut down. Further, there is widespread
uncertainty about the potential environmental effects of toxic emissions and runoff that are
likely to be released due to fires at CBESS facilities which could contaminate agricultural
lands and water bodies located within the Town and surrounding areas.

B. The Town Board therefore finds that allowing CBESS in the Town would be inconsistent
with the following goals and objectives of the Town as set forth in the Town of Fort Ann
Site Plan Review Law, Local Law 4 of 1990.

i. Allowing CBESS as a permitted use anywhere in the Town if contrary to the overall
goal set forth in Local Law 4 of 1990, the Site Plan Review Law, which is to
“protect the health, safety, and general welfare of Town residents;” to insure
development will not have “an undue adverse effect on the Town and its citizens
and taxpayers;” to “insure protection of open space, natural resources and preserve
rural characteristics of the Town; and to “insure overall conservation, protection,
development and use of the unique scenic, aesthetic, wildlife, recreational,
historical, ecological and natural resources of the Town.” Based on the foregoing,
the failure of CBESS presents serious safety risks to adjacent land uses and to the


natural environment, and CBESS, as industrial energy storage facilities, are
inconsistent with the Town’s rural character.

ii. | Allowing CBESS as a permitted use within the Town is contrary to the stated goals
of the Town as set forth in the Site Plan Review law which is to maintain a clean
wholesome and attractive environment for the health and safety of the inhabitants
of the Town by preservation of prime farmland, historic resources, including but
not limited to Battle Hill, water resources and environmentally sensitive and scenic
areas, as CBESS facilities represent commercial and industrial development that
would consume open space in a way that is detrimental to the Town’s rural
character and further present risks that are detrimental to the natural environment.

In accordance with the findings set forth herein and the authority vested in the Town Board,
Commercial Battery Energy Storage Facilities are hereby prohibited within the Town of Fort Ann.

Section 5. Penalties for Offenses and Enforcement.

Any person who shall develop or erect or install improvements upon land in violation of this local
law, or break ground for the purpose thereof, shall be guilty of a violation and subject to a fine not
to exceed $1,000.00 or six (6) months in jail, or both. Each week a violation continues shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation. This local law shall be enforced by the Enforcement
Officer of the Town of Fort Ann who is hereby granted authority to issue appearance tickets for
the purpose thereof. Upon authorization by the Town Board, this local law may also be enforced
by civil action brought in the name of the Town for the purpose of obtaining injunctive relief and
recovering civil penalties of $950.00 for each week a violation of the local law continues.

Section 6. Severability.

If any clause, sentence, phrase, paragraph or any part of this local law shall for any reason be
adjusted finally by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect,
impair or invalidate the remainder of this local law, but shall be confined in its operation and effect
to the clause, sentence, phrase, paragraph or any part thereof, directly involved in the controversy
or action in which such judgment shall have been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the
legislative intent that the remainder of this local law would have been adopted had any such
provisions not been included.

Section 7. Effective Date.

This local law shall take effect immediately upon adoption and filing with the Secretary of State.
