MARCH 10, 2026 - REGULAR MEETING OF THE TOWN BOARD OF THE TOWN OF
CAMILLUS, COUNTY OF ONONDAGA, STATE OF NEW YORK, HELD AT THE CAMILLUS
MUNICIPAL BUILDING.

PRESENT                               STAFF
John Fatcheric, Supervisor            Jim Gascon, Town Attorney
Chris Cesta                           Chuck White, Town Engineer
Fred Covert
Mary Luber                            GUESTS AND MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
John O’Hara                           Gregg Humphrey, Code Enforcement Officer
Laura Teufel                          Ken Stoneburg, Highway Superintendent
                                      Mike Schreyer, Police Chief
ABSENT                                Dick Waterman, Village of Camillus Mayor
Mike LaFlair                          Approximately 50 others

Supervisor Fatcheric called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m., followed by the Pledge of
Allegiance.

PUBLIC HEARING #1

Resolution #54
Councilor Covert moved to waive the reading of the public hearing notice. Councilor Cesta
seconded the motion, and it was unanimously approved.

Resolution #55
Councilor Luber moved to close the public hearing notice. Councilor Cesta seconded the
motion, and it was unanimously approved.


PUBLIC HEARING #2

Resolution #56
Councilor O’Hara moved to waive the reading of the public hearing notice. Councilor Teufel
seconded the motion, and it was unanimously approved.

Resolution #57
Councilor O’Hara moved to close the public hearing notice. Councilor Covert seconded the
motion, and it was unanimously approved.


PUBLIC HEARING #3

Resolution #58
Councilor Covert moved to waive the reading of the public hearing notice. Councilor O’Hara
seconded the motion, and it was unanimously approved.

Resolution #59
Councilor Covert moved to close the public hearing notice. Councilor Teufel seconded the
motion, and it was unanimously approved.

                                                                                        1
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

PUBLIC HEARING #4

Resolution #60
Councilor O’Hara moved to waive the reading of the public hearing notice. Councilor Cesta
seconded the motion, and it was unanimously approved.

Resolution #61
Councilor Teufel moved to close the public hearing notice. Councilor O’Hara seconded the
motion, and it was unanimously approved.


SUPERVISOR’S ANNOUNCEMENTS
Supervisor Fatcheric yielded his time to Mr. Gascon, who provided the following statement:

As many of the Town residents are aware, the Town issued a Cease-and-Desist Order to the
Camillus Sportsmen’s Club. This Order was issued as a result of multiple complaints from
nearby residents of stray bullets entering the neighborhoods and of bullet strikes to homes.

We have had a number of meetings with Town residents, as well as with officials from the
Camillus Sportsmen’s Club. As a result, the Town requested the Camillus Sportsmen’s Club
to submit an application to the Zoning Board of Appeals for a modification to its Special Use
Permit. It was our hope this would trigger a collaborative effort between the Town and the Club
to engage in an investigation and implementation of efforts to ensure that the Club was
operated safely. This request was made months ago. Despite having initially agreed to do so,
the Camillus Sportsmen’s Club has since refused to submit the application.

Following a rash of additional complaints from residents, the Town Code Enforcement Office
issued the Cease-and-Desist Order. Following the issuance of the Cease-and-Desist Order,
the Town requested the Camillus Sportsmen’s Club retain the services of a gun range safety
expert to review and analyze the facility. Again, this request was made months ago. To date,
and to our knowledge, the Camillus Sportsmen’s Club has failed to advise the Town that they
have engaged the requested expert. I ask the rhetorical question; what would the town’s
answer be to the parent of a child struck by a stray bullet if the Town failed to act in favor of
their safety?”

Most recently, and while preparing for the Zoning Board of Appeals appeal, the Town
discovered that the Camillus Sportsmen’s Club constructed, or had constructed, an outdoor
pistol range, and also moved and reconstructed the outdoor rifle range. Both were done
without proper permission from the Town Zoning Board of Appeals and constitute violations of
the Town Code. Accordingly, the Town Code Office issued the appropriate Notice of Violation
and Order to Remedy. This Notice requires the Camillus Sportsmen’s Club to submit the
appropriate applications to the Town Zoning Board of Appeals.

The Town Supervisor has encouraged the Camillus Sportsmen’s Club President to hire the
necessary safety expert and submit the appropriate applications to the Town Zoning Board of
Appeals, so together we can begin to work toward an appropriate and mutually acceptable
resolution. A solution that will result in the safe operation of the facility.

                                                                                               2
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING


COUNCILOR COMMENTS
Councilor Covert offered comments unrelated to Town Board business.


HIGHWAY SUPERINTENDENT COMMENTS/REPORTS
The Highway Superintendent noted that the department set an all-time high record for plow call
outs and that building maintenance and equipment inventorying projects have been
undertaken. He also recognized Jim Kelly’s efforts.


ACCEPT THE MINUTES
Councilor Covert moved to accept the minutes of the February 24, 2026 meeting. Councilor
O’Hara seconded the motion, and it was unanimously approved.


NEW BUSINESS

Resolution #62
Councilor O’Hara appoint Matthew Welch as a full-time police officer for the Camillus Police
Department contingent upon civil service approval with an annual salary of $69,826.00 and an
18 month probationary period, effective March 11, 2026. Councilor Covert seconded the
motion, and it was unanimously approved.
Resolution #63
The following resolution was offered by Councilor Luber, who moved its adoption, seconded by
Councilor Cesta, to wit:

WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Municipal Home Rule Law, a proposed local law
titled Local Law No. A-2026, “A Local Law Imposing a Twelve (12) Month Moratorium on
Battery Energy Storage Systems within the Town of Camillus,” was presented and introduced
at a regular meeting of the Town Board of the Town of Camillus held on February 10, 2026;
and

WHEREAS, a public hearing was held on such proposed local law on March 10, 2026, by the
Town Board of the Town of Camillus and proof of publication of notice of such public hearing,
as required by law, having been submitted and filed, and all persons desiring to be heard in
connection with said proposed local law having been heard, and said proposed local law
having been in the possession of the members of the Town Board of the Town of Camillus in
its final form in the manner required by Section 20 of the Municipal Home Rule Law of the
State of New York; and

WHEREAS, on February 10, 2026, the Town Board declared itself lead agency and
determined that the enactment of proposed Local Law No. A-2026 is a Type II Action thus
concluding environmental review under the State Environmental Quality Review Act; and
WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to enact said proposed Local Law No. A-2026.


                                                                                            3
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

NOW, THEREFORE, it is
RESOLVED that the Town Board of the Town of Camillus, Onondaga County, New York, does
hereby enact Proposed Local Law No. A-2026 as Local Law No. 1-2026 as follows:

                             “TOWN OF CAMILLUS
                          LOCAL LAW NO. 1 OF 2026
          A LOCAL LAW IMPOSING A TWELVE (12) MONTH MORATORIUM ON
       BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS WITHIN THE TOWN OF CAMILLUS

Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Camillus as follows:

SECTION 1.     AUTHORITY
This Local Law is enacted pursuant to the New York State Constitution and New York
Municipal Home Rule Law §10.

SECTION 2.        INTENT
It is the intent of the Town Board of the Town of Camillus to impose a twelve (12) month
moratorium on the siting, establishment, placement, installation, construction, erection,
modification and/or enlargement of battery energy storage systems within the Town of
Camillus.

SECTION 3.         LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE
The purpose of this Local Law is to temporarily halt development of battery energy storage
systems, for a period of up to twelve (12) months, while the Town of Camillus considers zoning
changes and the enactment of zoning measures to specifically address the matters of
community concern.
The Town Board recognizes and acknowledges that the Town needs to study and analyze
many considerations that affect the preparation of local legislation to regulate battery energy
storage systems. In the coming months, the Town will be diligently working towards the
development of regulations that will address, in a careful manner, the siting, establishment,
placement, installation, construction, erection, modification and/or enlargement of battery
energy storage systems on a Town-wide basis and to adopt land use regulations for provisions
to specifically regulate same.

SECTION 4.        DEFINITIONS
BATTERY/BATTERIES: A single cell or a group of cells connected together electronically in a
series, in parallel or a combination of both, which can charge, discharge and store energy
electrochemically. For the purposes of this Law, batteries utilized in consumer products are
excluded from these requirements.

BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: An electronic system that protects
energy storage systems from operating outside of their safe operating parameters and
disconnects when temperatures or other conditions are detected.

BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM: A rechargeable energy storage system consisting
of electrochemical storage batteries, battery chargers, controls, power conditioning systems
and associated electrical equipment designed to store energy to supply electrical energy at a
future time, not to include a stand-alone 12-volt car battery or an electric motor vehicle. A
                                                                                             4
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

battery energy storage system is classified as a Tier 1 or Tier 2 Energy Storage System as
follows:

      A.     Tier 1 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity less
             than or equal to 600 kWh and, if in a room or enclosed area, consist of only a
             single energy storage system technology.
      B.     Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate capacity greater than
             600 kWh or are comprised of more than one storage battery technology in a
             room or enclosed area.

Such systems shall include so-called “independent” or “stand-alone” systems or systems which
are incidental to another primary use, including but not limited to any wind energy or solar
energy systems.

CELL: The basic electrochemical unit, characterized by an anode and a cathode, used to
receive, store and deliver electrical energy.

SECTION 5.      MORATORIUM

      A.     The Town Board hereby enact a moratorium which shall prohibit the siting,
             establishment, placement, installation, construction, erection, modification and/or
             enlargement of battery energy storage systems anywhere within the Town of
             Camillus.

      B.     This moratorium shall be in effect for a period of twelve (12) months from the
             effective date of this Local Law and shall expire on the earlier of (i) the date
             twelve (12) months from said effective date of this Local Law, unless renewed; or
             (ii) the enactment by the Town Board of a resolution indicating that the Town
             Board is satisfied that the need for the moratorium no longer exists.

      C.     This moratorium shall apply to all zoning districts and all real property within the
             Town of Camillus.

      D.     Battery energy storage systems which have previously been approved and/or are
             located on Town-owned property are hereby expressly excluded from this
             moratorium and may be sited, established, placed, installed, constructed, erected
             and/or operated in accordance with the approved plans. Further modification,
             enlargement and/or alteration of previously approved battery energy storage
             systems is prohibited while the moratorium is in effect.

SECTION 6.      RELIEF FROM PROVISIONS OF THIS LOCAL LAW

      A.     The Town Board reserves to itself the power to vary or adapt the strict application
             of the requirements of this Local Law in the case of unusual hardship which
             would deprive the owner of all reasonable use of the lands involved.



                                                                                               5
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

      B.     Application for relief shall be filed in triplicate with the Town Code Enforcement
             Officer, together with a filing fee of $250.00. The application shall specifically
             identify the property involved, recite the circumstances pursuant to which the
             relief is sought and the reasons for which the relief is claimed. Any costs,
             including expert consulting fees or attorneys’ fees, incurred by the Town shall be
             reimbursed to the Town by the Applicant. The Town Board shall apply Use
             Variance criteria, as set forth in New York State Town Law §267-b(2), in
             reviewing any application for relief.

      C.     The Town Board may refer any applications for relief herein to the Town Planning
             Board for its advice and recommendations, but all decisions on granting or
             denying such relief shall be made solely by the Town Board after determining
             whether or not the requested relief is compatible with any contemplated
             amendments to the Town Zoning Law. Unless completely satisfied that the
             proposed relief is compatible, the Town Board shall deny the application.

      D.     The Town Board shall conduct a public hearing on any request for relief within
             forty-five (45) days of receipt by the Town’s Code Enforcement Officer and shall
             issue its final decision on requests for relief within thirty (30) days from the date
             of the public hearing.

SECTION 7.       PENALTIES
Any person, firm or corporation that shall establish, place, construct, enlarge and/or erect any
battery energy storage systems in violation of the provisions of this Local Law, or shall
otherwise violate any of the provisions of this Local Law, shall be subject to:

      A.     A fine not to exceed One Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($1,000.00) or
             imprisonment for a term not to exceed fifteen (15) days, or both. Each day a
             violation continues shall be considered a new violation.

      B.     A civil action inclusive of injunctive relief in favor of the Town to cease any and all
             such actions which conflict with this Local Law and, if necessary, to remove any
             constructions, improvements or related items or by-products which may have
             taken place in violation of this Local Law.

SECTION 8.       ENFORCEMENT
This Local Law shall be enforced by the Code Enforcement Office of the Town of Camillus or
such other zoning enforcement individual(s) as designated by the Town Board. It shall be the
duty of the enforcement individual(s) to advise the Town Board of all matters pertaining to the
enforcement of this Local Law.

SECTION 9.       VALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY
If any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision or part of this local law shall be adjudged by
any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not impair or invalidate
the remainder thereof but shall be limited in its operation to the clause, sentence, paragraph,
subdivision, section or part thereof directly involved in the proceeding in which such judgment
is rendered.

                                                                                                  6
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

SECTION 10. EFFECTIVE DATE
This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon passage and thereafter shall be filed with
the New York State Department of State. It shall remain in full force and effect for a period of
twelve (12) months from the date of passage.”
The question of the adoption of the foregoing resolution was duly put to a vote and upon roll
call, the vote was as follows:

             John Fatcheric       Town Supervisor            Voted Yes
             Chris Cesta          Councilor                  Voted Yes
             Fred Covert          Councilor                  Voted Yes
             Mary Luber           Councilor                  Voted Yes
             John O’Hara          Councilor                  Voted Yes
             Laura Teufel         Councilor                  Voted Yes
             Mike LaFlair         Councilor                  Absent

The foregoing resolution was thereupon declared duly adopted.

Resolution #64
The following resolution was offered by Councilor O’Hara, who moved its adoption, seconded
by Councilor Cesta, to wit:

WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Municipal Home Rule Law, a proposed local law
titled Local Law No. B-2026, “A Local Law to Repeal and Replace Chapter 38 (Dumpsters) of
Code of the Town of Camillus,” was presented and introduced at a regular meeting of the
Town Board of the Town of Camillus held on February 10, 2026; and

WHEREAS, a public hearing was held on such proposed local law on March 10, 2026, by the
Town Board of the Town of Camillus and proof of publication of notice of such public hearing,
as required by law, having been submitted and filed, and all persons desiring to be heard in
connection with said proposed local law having been heard, and said proposed local law
having been in the possession of the members of the Town Board of the Town of Camillus in
its final form in the manner required by Section 20 of the Municipal Home Rule Law of the
State of New York; and

WHEREAS, on February 10, 2026, the Town Board declared itself lead agency and
determined that the enactment of proposed Local Law No. B-2026 is an Unlisted Action and
issued a negative declaration thus concluding environmental review under the State
Environmental Quality Review Act; and

WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to enact said proposed Local Law No. B-2026.

NOW, THEREFORE, it is
RESOLVED that the Town Board of the Town of Camillus, Onondaga County, New York, does
hereby enact Proposed Local Law No. B-2026 as Local Law No. 2-2026 as follows:


                                                                                              7
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING



                           “TOWN OF CAMILLUS
                         LOCAL LAW NO. 2 OF 2026
 A LOCAL LAW TO REPEAL AND REPLACE CHAPTER 38 (DUMPSTERS) OF THE CODE
                        OF THE TOWN OF CAMILLUS

Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Camillus as follows:

SECTION 1.      LEGISLATIVE INTENT
The purpose of this Local Law is to repeal and replace Chapter 38 (“Dumpsters”) of the Code
of the Town of Camillus to enact modified regulations related to permit fees, dumpster
enclosures and penalties.

SECTION 2.       AUTHORITY
This local law is enacted pursuant to the New York State Constitution and the New York
Municipal Home Rule Law §10.

SECTION 3.          REPEAL AND REPLACE CHAPTER 38 (DUMPSTERS) OF THE CODE OF
                    THE TOWN OF CAMILLUS
Chapter 38 (Dumpsters) of the Code of the Town of Camillus is hereby repealed and replaced
in its entirety to read as follows:

“CHAPTER 38: DUMPSTERS

§ 38.1 Purpose
The purpose of this Chapter is to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare
of the community by regulating the placement of dumpsters on other than single-family
dwelling units. All dumpsters which have not been the subject of site plan review are
subject to the following regulations.

§ 38.2 Permit Required
No dumpster shall be located or relocated unless a permit is first obtained from the
Code Enforcement Officer. Fees for a permit shall be set by resolution of the Town
Board. A fee schedule shall be established by resolution of the Town Board of this
Town. Such fee schedule may thereafter be amended from time to time by like
resolution. Note: Dumpster Location or Relocation may require Site Plan Approval

§ 38.3 Application
Application for a permit to locate a dumpster shall be made upon a form to be provided
which shall be accompanied by an accurate survey upon which the proposed location of
the dumpster and enclosure shall be shown, together with any other details as may be
required.




                                                                                           8
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

§ 38.4 General Regulations

       A.     No dumpster shall be located in any required front yard as specified in
              Section 30.602B of this Code.

       B.     No dumpster shall be located in any required buffer strip as required by
              Section 30.1002 of this Code.

       C.     All dumpsters shall be enclosed with a stockade fence or other similar
              screen deemed appropriate by the Code Enforcement Officer, which
              enclosure shall be one foot in height above the top of the dumpster it
              screens which shall not exceed eight feet in height.

§ 38.5 Penalties

Any person who shall violate any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty of a violation.
Such violation shall be deemed an offense and each day the condition persists shall
constitute a separate offense. Any person(s) in violation of this Chapter shall be guilty of
an offense punishable by a fine not less than $50.00 nor more than $250.00; and upon
conviction of a second offense within a two (2) year period, shall be punishable by a fine
not less than $250.00 nor more than $500.00; and upon conviction of a third or
subsequent offense within a two (2) year period, shall be punishable by a fine not less
$500.00 nor more than $1,000.00.”

SECTION 4.        SEVERABILITY
If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, article or part of this local law shall be adjudged by
any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, or
invalidate the remainder thereof, but shall be confined in its operations to the clause, sentence,
paragraph, section, article, or part thereof directly involved in the controversy in which such
judgment shall have been rendered.

SECTION 5.      EFFECTIVE DATE
This Local Law shall take effect upon filing with the Secretary of State.”

The question of the adoption of the foregoing resolution was duly put to a vote and upon roll
call, the vote was as follows:

              John Fatcheric       Town Supervisor             Voted Yes
              Chris Cesta          Councilor                   Voted Yes
              Fred Covert          Councilor                   Voted Yes
              Mary Luber           Councilor                   Voted Yes
              John O’Hara          Councilor                   Voted Yes
              Laura Teufel         Councilor                   Voted Yes
              Mike LaFlair         Councilor                   Absent

The foregoing resolution was thereupon declared duly adopted.


                                                                                                 9
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

Resolution #65
The following resolution was offered by Councilor O’Hara, who moved its adoption, seconded
by Councilor Cesta, to wit:

WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Municipal Home Rule Law, a proposed local law
titled Local Law No. C-2026, “A Local Law to Repeal and Replace Chapter 27 (Smoke
Detectors) of Code of the Town of Camillus,” was presented and introduced at a regular
meeting of the Town Board of the Town of Camillus held on February 10, 2026; and

WHEREAS, a public hearing was held on such proposed local law on March 10, 2026, by the
Town Board of the Town of Camillus and proof of publication of notice of such public hearing,
as required by law, having been submitted and filed, and all persons desiring to be heard in
connection with said proposed local law having been heard, and said proposed local law
having been in the possession of the members of the Town Board of the Town of Camillus in
its final form in the manner required by Section 20 of the Municipal Home Rule Law of the
State of New York; and

WHEREAS, on February 10, 2026, the Town Board declared itself lead agency and
determined that the enactment of proposed Local Law No. C-2026 is an Unlisted Action and
issued a negative declaration thus concluding environmental review under the State
Environmental Quality Review Act; and

WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to enact said proposed Local Law No. C-2026.
NOW, THEREFORE, it is
RESOLVED that the Town Board of the Town of Camillus, Onondaga County, New York, does
hereby enact Proposed Local Law No. C-2026 as Local Law No. 3-2026 as follows:

                          “TOWN OF CAMILLUS
                        LOCAL LAW NO. 3 OF 2026
A LOCAL LAW TO REPEAL AND REPLACE CHAPTER 27 (SMOKE DETECTORS) OF THE
                    CODE OF THE TOWN OF CAMILLUS

Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Camillus as follows:

SECTION 1.      LEGISLATIVE INTENT
The purpose of this Local Law is to repeal and replace Chapter 27 (“Smoke Detectors”) of the
Code of the Town of Camillus to enact modified regulations related to certification of
compliance with installation and maintenance and penalties.

SECTION 2. AUTHORITY
This local law is enacted pursuant to the New York State Constitution and the New York
Municipal Home Rule Law §10.

SECTION 3. REPEAL AND REPLACE CHAPTER 27 (SMOKE DETECTORS) OF THE CODE
OF THE TOWN OF CAMILLUS
Chapter 27 (Smoke Detectors ) of the Code of the Town of Camillus is hereby repealed and
replaced in its entirety to read as follows:

                                                                                          10
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

“CHAPTER 27: SMOKE DETECTORS

§ 27.1 Title

This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Smoke Detector Law of the Town
of Camillus, New York."

§ 27.2 Legislative Intent and Purpose

       A.      The Town Board finds that disastrous fires often occur because they are
               not timely detected resulting in substantial property loss as well as injury
               or even fatalities among its residents.

       B.      The purpose of this Chapter is to lessen the likelihood of disastrous fires
               and is enacted to protect the public health, safety and welfare and to
               promote the public good.

§ 27.3 Smoke Detectors

       A.      Application of Chapter

               Effective October 1, 1984, all dwelling units shall have smoke detectors
               installed by the owner(s). Units shall have smoke detectors installed,
               inspected and approved before being occupied by any person or persons.
               Permit applications must be made with floor plans supplied for those
               structures to which this local law applies. Permit fees shall be set by
               resolution of the Town Board.

               Exception: Single-Family Owner-Occupied dwellings shall not be required
               to be inspected or apply for permits.

       B.      Definitions

               As used in this Chapter:

               “Dwelling Unit” means one or more rooms with provision for living,
               cooking, sanitary and sleeping facilities arranged for the use of one family.

               “Family” means a household constituting a single housekeeping unit
               occupied by one or more persons.

               “Owner-Occupied” means a dwelling occupied by the owner or the owner's
               Parents, Siblings, Children.

       C.      Requirements

               Smoke detectors shall be of a type approved by the Uniform Fire
               Prevention and Building Code of the State of New York; shall be capable
                                                                                               11
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

          of sensing visible and/or invisible products of combustion and when
          activated, shall provide an alarm suitable to warn the occupants. Such
          detectors shall also include such markings and literature sufficient to
          inform the occupants and owners of the purposes, protective limitations
          and correct installation, operating, testing, maintenance and replacement
          procedures and servicing instructions for such equipment.

     D.   Installation and Location

          The manner of installation and the Location of the smoke detectors shall
          be in compliance with the NY State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building
          Code, this Chapter, and approved by the Code Enforcement Officer or the
          Fire Marshall of the Town of Camillus, which shall be in accordance with
          and shall not exceed the standards under which the detectors were tested
          and approved and any limitations on their use. Approval shall remain in
          effect unless the Code Enforcement Officer or the Fire Marshall finds that
          the equipment is hazardous or unreliable and in such case he or she shall
          revoke such approval.

     E.   Number Required

          1.    At least one smoke detector shall be installed in each dwelling unit,
                on each floor, including the basement, and in each room used for
                sleeping.

          2.    In each structure containing three or more dwelling units, at least
                one electric detector shall be installed in each common
                passageway on each floor.

          3.    In each structure containing three or more dwelling units,
                interconnected detectors shall be installed in each common
                passageway on each floor and in the cellar or basement, the signal
                or alarm of which shall be clearly audible throughout the structure.

     F.   Maintenance

          It shall be the responsibility of the owner of each dwelling unit and
          structure covered by this Chapter to maintain all smoke detectors in good
          working order.

     G.   Owner Statement of Compliance

          Beginning January, 2026 and during January each year thereafter, the
          owner of each dwelling unit and structure in which a smoke detector has
          been installed shall certify to the Code Enforcement Officer in writing that
          the required maintenance has been performed on all such detectors in the
          owner's dwelling units and structures and that the devices are in good
          working condition as of the date of the certification.
                                                                                         12
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

              Exception: Owner-Occupied Single-Family homes

       H.     Inspections

              The Code Enforcement Officer or the Fire Marshall may inspect all
              dwellings covered by this Chapter annually and as may be necessary to
              ensure compliance, with the permission of the property owner or
              occupant. The Code Enforcement Officer can be contacted for
              recommendations when an owner is concerned about installation, number
              or type of alarms or detectors.

§ 27.4 Penalty

Any person who shall violate any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty of a violation.
Such violation shall be deemed an offense and each day the condition persists shall
constitute a separate offense. Any person(s) in violation of this Chapter shall be guilty of
an offense punishable by a fine not less than $50.00 nor more than $250.00; and upon
conviction of a second offense within a two (2) year period, shall be punishable by a fine
not less than $250.00 nor more than $500.00; and upon conviction of a third or
subsequent offense within a two (2) year period, shall be punishable by a fine not less
$500.00 nor more than $1,000.00.”

SECTION 4. SEVERABILITY
If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, article or part of this local law shall be adjudged by
any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, or
invalidate the remainder thereof, but shall be confined in its operations to the clause, sentence,
paragraph, section, article, or part thereof directly involved in the controversy in which such
judgment shall have been rendered.

SECTION 5. EFFECTIVE DATE
This Local Law shall take effect upon filing with the Secretary of State.”

The question of the adoption of the foregoing resolution was duly put to a vote and upon roll
call, the vote was as follows:

              John Fatcheric       Town Supervisor             Voted         Yes
              Chris Cesta          Councilor                   Voted         Yes
              Fred Covert          Councilor                   Voted         Yes
              Mary Luber           Councilor                   Voted         Yes
              John O’Hara          Councilor                   Voted         Yes
              Laura Teufel         Councilor                   Voted         Yes
              Mike LaFlair         Councilor                   Absent

The foregoing resolution was thereupon declared duly adopted.

Resolution #66
The following resolution was offered by Councilor Covert, who moved its adoption, seconded
by Councilor Cesta, to wit:
                                                                                                13
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Municipal Home Rule Law, a proposed local law
titled Local Law No. D-2026, “A Local Law to Repeal and Replace Chapter 29 (Fire
Prevention) of Code of the Town of Camillus,” was presented and introduced at a regular
meeting of the Town Board of the Town of Camillus held on February 10, 2026; and

WHEREAS, a public hearing was held on such proposed local law on March 10, 2026, by the
Town Board of the Town of Camillus and proof of publication of notice of such public hearing,
as required by law, having been submitted and filed, and all persons desiring to be heard in
connection with said proposed local law having been heard, and said proposed local law
having been in the possession of the members of the Town Board of the Town of Camillus in
its final form in the manner required by Section 20 of the Municipal Home Rule Law of the
State of New York; and

WHEREAS, on February 10, 2026, the Town Board declared itself lead agency and
determined that the enactment of proposed Local Law No. D-2026 is an Unlisted Action and
issued a negative declaration thus concluding environmental review under the State
Environmental Quality Review Act; and

WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to enact said proposed Local Law No. D-2026.

NOW, THEREFORE, it is
RESOLVED that the Town Board of the Town of Camillus, Onondaga County, New York, does
hereby enact Proposed Local Law No. D-2026 as Local Law No. 4-2026 as follows:

                           TOWN OF CAMILLUS
                        LOCAL LAW NO. 4 OF 2026
 A LOCAL LAW TO REPEAL AND REPLACE CHAPTER 29 (FIRE PREVENTION) OF THE
                    CODE OF THE TOWN OF CAMILLUS

Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Camillus as follows:

SECTION 1.       LEGISLATIVE INTENT
The purpose of this Local Law is to repeal and replace Chapter 29 (“Fire Prevention”) of the
Code of the Town of Camillus to enact modified regulations related to the issuance of permits
for certain hazardous activities and the enforcement and penalties regarding the same.

SECTION 2. AUTHORITY
This local law is enacted pursuant to the New York State Constitution and the New York
Municipal Home Rule Law §10.

SECTION 3. REPEAL AND REPLACE CHAPTER 29 (FIRE PREVENTION) OF THE CODE
OF THE TOWN OF CAMILLUS
Chapter 29 (Fire Prevention) of the Code of the Town of Camillus is hereby repealed and
replaced in its entirety to read as follows:



                                                                                          14
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

“CHAPTER 29: FIRE PREVENTION

§ 29.1 Applicability

This Chapter shall provide the basic method for administration and enforcement of the State
Fire Prevention Code in the Town of Camillus and shall establish powers, duties and
responsibilities in connection therewith.

§ 29.2 Short title

This Chapter shall hereafter be known and cited as the "Fire Prevention Code Enforcement
Law of the Town of Camillus, New York".

§ 29.3 Administration

The Code Enforcement Officer is hereby designated the Official of the Town of Camillus to
administer and enforce the NY State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code within the
Town of Camillus.

§ 29.4 Rules and regulations

       A.     Adoption by Code Enforcement Officer

       The Code Enforcement Officer of the Town of Camillus may adopt rules and regulations
            for the administration and enforcement of the NY State Uniform Fire Prevention
            and Building Code. Such rules and regulations shall not conflict with the NY State
            Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code, this Chapter or any other provision of
            law.

       B.     Notice of adoption: filing

       The Code Enforcement Officer shall publish a notice of adoption summarizing all rules
            and regulations upon adoption at least five (5) days prior to the effective date
            thereof in the official newspaper of the Town of Camillus and file a certified copy
            of same in the Office of the Town Clerk on or before the date of publication.

§ 29.5 Permits

       A.     Issuance

              1. Upon payment of the fee as prescribed in the schedule of fees adopted by the
                 Town Board, permits shall be issued by and bear the name and signature of
                 the Code Enforcement Officer and shall specify:

                       a.   Activity or operation for which permit is issued.

                       b.   Address or location where activity or operation is to be conducted.

                                                                                              15
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

                  c.     Name and address of permittee.

                  d.     Permit number and date of issuance.

                  e.     Period of permit validity.

     B.    Nontransferable

     Permits shall not be transferable and any change in activity, operation, location,
     ownership, or use shall require a new permit.

     C.    Indefinite term; limitations

     Permits shall continue until revoked, or for a period of time designated at the time of
     issuance. An extension of the permit time period may be granted provided a satisfactory
     reason can be shown for failure to start or complete the work or activity authorized
     within the required time period.


     D.    Activities for which permits required

           Permits shall be obtained for the following:

           1. Acetylene Generators: To operate an acetylene generator having a calcium
              carbide capacity exceeding five (5) pounds.

           2. Automobile Tire Rebuilding Plants: To operate an automobile tire rebuilding
              plant.

           3. Automobile Wrecking Yards: To operate an automobile wrecking yard.

           4. Bowling Establishments: For bowling pin refinishing and bowling lane
              resurfacing operations involving the use and application of flammable or
              combustible liquids or materials.

           5. Cellulose Nitrate Motion Picture Film: To store, keep or have on hand more
              than twenty-five (25) pounds of cellulose nitrate motion picture film.

           6. Cellulose Nitrate Plastics (pyroxylin):

                  a. To store, keep or have on hand more that twenty-five (25) pounds of
                     cellulose nitrate plastics (pyroxylin)

                  b. To manufacture articles of cellulose nitrate plastics (pyroxylin) which
                     shall include the use of cellulose nitrate plastics (pyroxylin) in the
                     manufacture or assembling of other articles.


                                                                                         16
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

          7. Combustible Fibers: To store, handle, or use combustible fibers in quantities
             in excess of one hundred (100) cubic feet except in agricultural products on a
             farm.

          8. Combustible Materials: To store combustible materials including but not
             limited to empty combustible packing cases, boxes, barrels, or similar
             containers, rubber tires, baled cotton, rubber, cork, or other similar materials
             in excess of 2,500 cubic feet gross volume, on any premises.

          9. Compressed Gases:

                a. To store, handle or use at normal temperatures and pressures more
                   than:

                       i.   2,000 cubic feet of flammable compressed gas, or
                      ii.   6,000 cubic feet of nonflammable compressed gas

                b. To store, handle, or use any quantity of liquefied natural or hydrogen
                   gas.

          10. Cryogenics: To store, handle, or use cryogenic fluids, except cryogenics used
              as a motor fuel and stored in motor vehicle tanks, as follows:

                a. Production, sale, or storage of cryogenic fluids;

                b. Storage or use of flammable cryogenic fluids, cryogenic oxidizers, or
                   liquefied oxygen in excess of ten (10) gallons.

          11. Drycleaning Plants: To use in excess of four (4) gallons of solvents or
              cleaning agents classified as flammable or combustible.

          12. Dust Producing Plants: To operate any grain elevator, flour, starch, or feed
              mill, woodworking plant, or plant pulverizing aluminum, coal, cocoa, plastics,
              magnesium, spices, sugar, sulfur, or other materials producing explosive-
              potential dust.

          13. Explosive, Ammunition and Blasting Agents:

                a. To manufacture, possess, store, sell, or otherwise dispose of
                   explosives; and blasting agents; including fireworks or sparkling
                   devices;

                b. To use explosives or blasting agents; including fireworks displays;

                c. To operate a terminal for handling explosives or blasting agents.



                                                                                          17
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

          14. Flammable and Combustible Liquids:

                a. To store, handle, or use flammable liquids in excess of six and one-half
                   (6½) gallons inside dwellings; or in excess of ten (10) gallons inside
                   any other building or in excess of sixty (60) gallons outside of any
                   building.

                This provision shall not apply to: Liquids in the fuel tank of a motor vehicle,
                   aircraft, portable or stationary engine, boat, or portable heating plant;
                   Paints, oils, varnishes or similar flammable mixtures, when such liquids
                   are stored for maintenance, painting, or similar purposes.

                b. To store, handle, or use combustible liquids in excess of twenty-five
                   (25) gallons inside a building, or in excess of sixty (60) gallons outside
                   of a building. This provision shall not apply to fuel oil used in
                   connection with oil burning equipment.

                c. A permit shall be obtained for the initial installation of an oil burner and
                   a fuel oil tank used in connection therewith. A permit shall be required
                   for the replacement of a fuel oil tank connected to an oil burner.

                d. For processing, blending, or refining of flammable or combustible
                   liquids.

          15. Flammable Finishing: For spraying, coating, or dipping operations utilizing
              flammable or combustible liquids.
          16. Fruit Ripening Process: To conduct a fruit ripening process using ethylene
              gas.

          17. Fumigation and Thermal Insecticidal Fogging: To conduct fumigation or
              thermal insecticidal fogging operations.

          18. Hazardous Chemicals:

                a. To store, handle, or use more than fifty-five (55) gallons of corrosive
                   liquids, or more than fifty (50) pounds of oxidizing materials; or more
                   than ten (10) pounds of organic peroxides; or more than fifty (50)
                   pounds of nitromethane; or one thousand (1,000) pounds or more
                   ammonium nitrate, ammonium nitrate fertilizers and fertilizer mixtures
                   containing sixty percent (60%) or more ammonium or any amount of
                   toxic material or poisonous gas.

                b. To store, handle, or use any quantity or air reactive, water-reactive, or
                   unstable materials.

          19. Junk Yards: To operate a junkyard.


                                                                                            18
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

          20. Liquefied Petroleum Gas: For each installation of liquefied petroleum gas
              employing a container or an aggregate of interconnected containers of over
              two thousand (2,000) gallons water capacity, and for each permanent
              installation, irrespective of size of containers, made at buildings in which
              twenty (20) or more persons congregate for civic, political, educational,
              religious, or social or recreational purposes.

             Installers shall maintain a record of all installations and replacement of
             portable cylinders, and have it available for inspection.

          21. Lumber Yards: To operate a lumberyard.

          22. Magnesium: For melting, casting, heat treating, machining, or grinding of
              more than ten (10) pounds of magnesium per working day.

          23. Matches:

                a. To manufacture matches;

                b. To store matches more than twenty-five (25) cases. (Note: One case
                   equals one matchman’s gross of fourteen thousand four hundred
                   (14,400) matches.)

          24. Organic Coatings: To perform organic coating operations utilizing more than
              one gallon of organic coating on any working day.

          25. Ovens and Furnaces: To operate industrial processing ovens and furnaces
              operating at approximately atmospheric pressures and temperatures not
              exceeding 1400F. which are heated with oil or gas fuel or which during
              operation contain flammable vapors from the material in the oven or catalytic
              combustion system.
          26. Places of Assembly: To maintain, operate, or use a place of assembly.

          27. Service Stations and Repair Garages: To operate a service station or repair
              garage.

          28. Welding and Cutting: To operate a welding and cutting business. A record of
              all locations where welding or cutting operations are performed shall be
              maintained and kept available for inspection by the permit holder.

     E.   Consolidated permits

          When more than one permit is required for the same property or premises, a
          single permit may be issued listing all materials or operations covered.
          Revocation of a portion or portions of such consolidated permit, for specific
          hazardous materials or operations, shall not invalidate the remainder.


                                                                                        19
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

      F.     Location of permits

             Permits shall be kept on property or premises covered by the permit or carried by
             the permit holder.

      G.     Revocation of permits

             If the Code Enforcement Officer determines that a Permit was issued in error
             because of incorrect, inaccurate, misrepresented, falsified, or incomplete
             information, or that the work or activity for which a permit was issued violates the
             Uniform Code or the Energy Code, or the Code of the Town of Camillus, the
             Code Enforcement Officer shall revoke the Permit or suspend the Permit until
             such time as the Permit Holder demonstrates that (1) all work then completed or
             activity conducted is in substantial compliance with all applicable provisions of
             the Uniform Code, the Energy Code, or the Code of the Town of Camillus and (2)
             all work or activity then proposed to be performed shall be in compliance with all
             applicable provisions of the Uniform Code, the Energy Code, or the Code of the
             Town of Camillus. A Permit may also be revoked if the Code Enforcement Officer
             determines that the work or activity under the Permit is not being done in
             accordance with the provisions of the application, plans or specifications; where
             the person to whom a Permit is issued fails or refuses to comply with a Stop
             Work Order; or where the work has not been completed within the period of the
             Permit or any extensions thereof.

§ 29.6 Inspections

The Code Enforcement Officer shall conduct periodic inspections for compliance with the
provisions of the Uniform Code, the Energy Code, or the Code of the Town of Camillus. Such
inspections may be made at any reasonable time. If entrance to make an inspection is refused
or cannot be obtained, the Code Enforcement Officer may apply for a warrant to make an
inspection to any court of competent jurisdiction.


§ 29.7 Stop Work Orders

      A.     Authority to issue. The Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue Stop
             Work Orders pursuant to this section. The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue
             a Stop Work Order to halt:

             1. any work or activity that is determined by the Code Enforcement Officer to be
                contrary to any applicable provision of the NY State Uniform Fire Prevention
                and Building Code, the Energy Code, or this Chapter, without regard to
                whether such work or activity is or is not work for which a Permit is required,
                and without regard to whether a Permit has or has not been issued for such
                work or activity, or

             2. any work or activity that is being conducted in a dangerous or unsafe manner
                in the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer, without regard to whether
                                                                                              20
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

                    such work or activity is or is not work or activity for which a Permit is required,
                    and without regard to whether a Permit has or has not been issued for such
                    work, or

             3. any work or activity for which a Permit is required which is being performed
                without the required Permit, or under a Permit that has become invalid, has
                expired, or has been suspended or revoked.

      B.     Content of Stop Work Orders. Stop Work Orders shall (1) be in writing, (2) be
             dated and signed by the Code Enforcement Officer, (3) state the reason or
             reasons for issuance, and (4) if applicable, state the conditions which must be
             satisfied before work will be permitted to resume.

      C.     Service of Stop Work Orders. The Code Enforcement Officer shall cause the
             Stop Work Order, or a copy thereof, to be served on the owner of the affected
             property (and, if the owner is not the Permit Holder, on the Permit Holder)
             personally or by certified mail. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be permitted,
             but not required, to cause the Stop Work Order, or a copy thereof, to be served
             on any builder, architect, tenant, contractor, subcontractor, construction
             superintendent, or their agents, or any other Person taking part or assisting in
             work affected by the Stop Work Order, personally or by certified mail; provided,
             however, that failure to serve any Person mentioned in this sentence shall not
             affect the efficacy of the Stop Work Order.

      D.     Effect of Stop Work Order. Upon the issuance of a Stop Work Order, the owner
             of the affected property, the Permit Holder, and any other Person performing,
             taking part in, or assisting in the work shall immediately cease all work which is
             the subject of the Stop Work Order, other than work expressly authorized by the
             Code Enforcement Officer to correct the reason for issuing the Stop Work Order.

      E.     Remedy not exclusive. The issuance of a Stop Work Order shall not be the
             exclusive remedy available to address any event described in subdivision (a) of
             this section, and the authority to issue a Stop Work Order shall be in addition to,
             and not in substitution for or limitation of, the right and authority to pursue any
             other remedy or impose any other penalty under § 29.8 (Violations) of this
             Chapter or under any other applicable local law or State law. Any such other
             remedy or penalty may be pursued at any time, whether prior to, at the time of, or
             after the issuance of a Stop Work Order.

§ 29.8 Violations

      A.     Compliance with applicable laws.

             A person owning, operating, occupying or maintaining property or premises
             within the scope of the NY State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code or
             this Chapter shall comply with all the provisions of the NY State Uniform Fire
             Prevention and Building Code, this Chapter and all orders, notices, rules,
             regulations or determinations issued in connection therewith.
                                                                                                    21
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

      B.     Issuance of violation order.

             Whenever the Code Enforcement Officer finds that there has been a violation of
             the NY State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code, this Chapter, or any
             rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this Chapter, a violation order shall be
             issued to the person or persons responsible.

      C.     Violation orders; contents.

             Violation orders shall be in writing; shall identify the property or premises; shall
             specify the violation and remedial action to be taken; shall provide 30 days' time
             limit for compliance or to file an appeal to the Regional Board of Review.

      D.     Service of violation orders.

             Violation orders may be served: by personal service; by mailing by registered or
             certified mail; or by posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the
             premises, and by mailing a copy thereof to the premises on the same day as
             posted, enclosed in a postpaid wrapper addressed to the person responsible.

      E.     Application to Court.

             In case the owner, lessor, occupant or the agent of any property shall fail, neglect
             or refuse to remove, eliminate or abate the violation within the time specified in
             the violation order, the Code Enforcement Officer shall issue appearance
             ticket(s) for the Justice Court of the Town of Camillus.

§ 29.9 Penalties

      A.     Failure to comply

             Any person who shall violate any provisions of the NY State Uniform Fire
             Prevention and Building Code, this Chapter, rules or regulations adopted
             pursuant to this Chapter, or a violation order shall be guilty of a violation. Such
             violation shall be deemed an offense and each day the condition persists shall
             constitute a separate offense. Any person(s) in violation of this Chapter shall be
             guilty of an offense punishable by a fine not less than $50.00 nor more than
             $250.00; and upon conviction of a second offense within a two (2) year period,
             shall be punishable by a fine not less than $250.00 nor more than $500.00; and
             upon conviction of a third or subsequent offense within a two (2) year period,
             shall be punishable by a fine not less $500.00 nor more than $1,000.00.”

      B.     Injunctive relief

             An action or proceeding in the name of the Town of Camillus may be
             commenced in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with or
             restrain by injunction the violation of any provision of the NY State Uniform Fire
             Prevention and Building Code, this Chapter, rule or regulation adopted pursuant
                                                                                              22
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

             to this Chapter, or a violation order, or to vacate the occupancy or building in the
             case of imminent danger to life or property. Such remedy shall be in addition to
             penalties otherwise prescribed by law.

§ 29.9 Records

The Code Enforcement Officer shall keep official records of all permits, inspection reports,
recommendations, complaints and violation orders.

§ 29.10 Removal of dangerous buildings or structures (*See also Chapter 33. Unsafe Buildings)

      A.     Public nuisance

             A building or structure or part thereof, which is an imminent danger to life and
             safety of the public as a result of a fire or explosion is hereby declared to be a
             public nuisance.

      B.     Emergencies

             Whenever the Code Enforcement Officer finds a building or structure, or part
             thereof, to be an imminent danger to life and safety of the public as a result of a
             fire or explosion, the Code Enforcement Officer may cause it to be demolished
             and removed or may cause work to be done in and about the building or
             structure as may be necessary to remove the danger as provided in Chapter 33
             entitled "Unsafe Buildings" of this Municipal Code.

      C.     Vacating premises

             The Code Enforcement Officer may require the occupants of any such building or
             structure, or part thereof, to vacate the premises forthwith. No person shall use or
             occupy such building or structure, or part thereof, until it is made safe.

             Except for the owner, no person shall enter premises which have been ordered
             vacated unless authorized to perform inspections, repairs, or to demolish and
             remove such building or structure, or part thereof.


      D.     Assessment of costs and expenses

             All costs and expenses incurred by the Town of Camillus in connection with any
             work done to remove the danger, or in connection with the demolition and
             removal of any such building or structure shall be assessed against the land on
             which such building or structure is located, and a bill for such expenses shall be
             presented to the owner of the property, or if the owner cannot be ascertained,
             then such bill shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. Such
             assessment shall be, and constitute a lien upon such land. If the owner shall fail
             to pay for such expenses within ten (10) days after the bill is presented or posted,
             a legal action may be brought to collect such assessment or to foreclose such
                                                                                              23
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

              lien. As an alternative to the maintenance of any such action, the Code
              Enforcement Officer may file a certificate of the actual expenses incurred as
              aforesaid, together with a statement identifying the property in connection with
              which the expenses were incurred, and the owner thereof, with the Assessor,
              who shall, in the preparation of the next assessment roll, assess such amount
              upon such property. Such amount shall be included in the levy against such
              property, shall constitute a lien and shall be collected and enforced in the same
              manner, by the same proceedings, at the same time, and under the same
              penalties, as is provided by law for the collection and enforcement of real
              property taxes in the Town of Camillus.

§ 29.11 Review Board

       A.     Regional Boards of Review are created by the Secretary of State and requests
              for variances from, or modifications to, the NY State Uniform Fire Prevention and
              Building Code must be made to the regional board of review.

              1. The Code Enforcement Officer shall obtain and retain a copy of each decision
                 of the Regional Board of Review for the record.

       B.     The Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby designated as the Review Board under
              this Chapter for the purpose of granting variances to rules and regulations
              adopted pursuant to § 29.4 of this Chapter.

              1. The Code Enforcement Officer shall obtain and retain a copy of each decision
                 of the Zoning Board of Appeals for the record.”

SECTION 4. SEVERABILITY
If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, article or part of this local law shall be adjudged by
any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, or
invalidate the remainder thereof, but shall be confined in its operations to the clause, sentence,
paragraph, section, article, or part thereof directly involved in the controversy in which such
judgment shall have been rendered.

SECTION 5. EFFECTIVE DATE
This Local Law shall take effect upon filing with the Secretary of State.

The question of the adoption of the foregoing resolution was duly put to a vote and upon roll
call, the vote was as follows:

              John Fatcheric       Town Supervisor             Voted Yes
              Chris Cesta          Councilor                   Voted Yes
              Fred Covert          Councilor                   Voted Yes
              Mary Luber           Councilor                   Voted Yes
              John O’Hara          Councilor                   Voted Yes
              Laura Teufel         Councilor                   Voted Yes
              Mike LaFlair         Councilor                   Absent

The foregoing resolution was thereupon declared duly adopted.
                                                                                                24
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

Resolution #67
Councilor Cesta moved to approve Warrant No. 5, checks and ACH payments in the amount of
$213,544.82 as audited by the Town Board and hereby approved for payment in the usual
manner at the discretion of the Town Supervisor. Councilor Teufel seconded the motion, and it
was unanimously approved.

Resolution #68
Councilor Cesta moved to set the date, time, and place as March 24, 2025, at 6:00 pm at the
Camillus Municipal Building to hold a public hearing to consider Community Development
Block Grants projects and adopt the updated five-year plan and approved local match for the
projects. Councilor O’Hara seconded the motion, and it was unanimously approved.

Resolution #69
Councilor Teufel moved to approve the request to Onondaga County Civil Service that one (1)
additional Assessment Clerk title be added to the current Town of Camillus, Onondaga County
Civil Service Title Roster, with appointment to this position being from an Open Competitive
Exam. Councilor Covert seconded the motion, and it was unanimously approved.

Resolution #70
Councilor Cesta moved to approve the budget amendment to allocate funds from account
A00.0000.00909.0000-General Fund to account A00.1410.45900.0000-Town Clerk
Computers/Hardware for software agreements for 2026. Councilor O’Hara seconded the
motion, and it was unanimously approved.

Resolution #70
Councilor Luber moved to approve the Application for Fire Hydrants provided by OCWA
relative to the installation of four hydrants in the existing Rolling Meadows Water District, and
authorize the Supervisor to sign. Councilor Covert seconded the motion and it was
unanimously approved.

Resolution #70
Councilor Teufel introduced proposed Local Law No. E-2026, titled “A Local Law to Repeal
and Replace Chapter 26 (Uniform Code Enforcement) of the Code of the Town of Camillus,”
and made the following motion, which was seconded by O’Hara:

WHEREAS, proposed Local Law E-2026 has been introduced and will be considered for
enactment pursuant to the provisions of the Municipal Home Rule Law and Town Law; and

WHEREAS, Volume 6 N.Y.C.R.R., Section 617 of the Regulations relating to Article 8 of the
New York State Environmental Conservation Law, requires that as early as possible an
involved agency shall make a determination whether a given action is subject to the
aforementioned law; and

WHEREAS, no other agency has the legal authority or jurisdiction to approve or directly
undertake the enactment of a local law in the Town of Camillus, such that there are no other
involved agencies within the meaning of the New York State Environmental Quality Review Act
(SEQRA) with respect to the proposed enactment of said Local Law.
                                                                                          25
MARCH 10, 2026 REGULAR MEETING

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT
RESOLVED AND DETERMINED that there are no other involved agencies, the Town Board
shall act as lead agency, and that the enactment of this Local Law is an Unlisted action and
will have no significant effect on the environment and this resolution constitutes a Negative
Declaration for purposes of SEQRA, thus concluding environmental review under SEQRA; and
be it further

RESOLVED AND DETERMINED, that the Town Board shall conduct a public hearing as to the
enactment of proposed Local Law No. E-2026 at the Town Hall located at 4600 West Genesee
Street, Syracuse, New York on April 14, 2026, at 6:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as the matter
can be heard, at which time all persons interested in the subject shall be heard; and it is further

RESOLVED AND DETERMINED, that notice of said public hearing shall be provided at least
five (5) days prior to the date of said public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within
the Town of Camillus.

The question of the adoption of the foregoing resolution was duly put to a vote and upon roll
call, the vote was as follows:

              John Fatcheric       Town Supervisor             Voted         Yes
              Chris Cesta          Councilor                   Voted         Yes
              Fred Covert          Councilor                   Voted         Yes
              Mary Luber           Councilor                   Voted         Yes
              John O’Hara          Councilor                   Voted         Yes
              Laura Teufel         Councilor                   Voted         Yes
              Mike LaFlair         Councilor                   Absent

The foregoing resolution was thereupon declared duly adopted.

MAYOR OF THE VILLAGE OF CAMILLUS COMMENTS
Mayor Waterman had no comments


PUBLIC COMMENT
Five residents and five non-residents commented on the Camillus Sportsman Club Cease and
Desist order.

A resident remarked on the upcoming West Genesee School District vote.


ADJOURNMENT
Councilor Cesta moved to adjourn the meeting at 7:18 p.m. Councilor Covert seconded the
motion, and it was unanimously approved.


Respectfully submitted,

Martha Dickson-McMahon
Town Clerk
                                                                                                26
