                                                                                                              New York State Department of State
                                                                           Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
                                                                                                    One Commerce Plaza, 99 Wasliington Avenue
                                                                                                                         Albany, NY 12231-0001
        Local Law Filing                                                                                                        www.dos.ny.gov


                                  ( U s e this form to file a local law with the S e c r e t a r y of State.)


             Text of law should be given a s amended. Do not include matter being eliminated a n d d o not use
             italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

              •County        nCity            nTown          (xjVillage
             (Select one:)

             o f Turin




             Local L a w No.         01                                            of the y e a r 20 25

             A local l a w ''^P°^''^9 ^ 6-Month extension of the current Moratorium on Solar Energy Collectors,
                             (Insert Title)

                             Generators, Battery Storage Systems, Commercial Energy Storage Systems and

                             Compressed Air Energy Storage Systems as Non-Accessory uses in ail zoning districts




             B e it enacted by the Board of Trustees                                                                                 of the
                                              (Name of Legislative Body)



              •County        •City            •Town          [x]Village
             (Select one:)

             of   Turin                                                                                                      as follows:

       See Attached




                                                                                      FILED
                                                                                STATE RECORDS

                                                                                 JUN 0 6 2025
                                                                     DEPARTMENT OF STATE
                                                               LOCAL LAWS INDEX NUMBER _
                                                                            OF THE Y E A R 2 0 J 2 S _




                  (If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)



DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 04/14)                                                                                                                     Page 2 of 4


Be it enacted by the Village Board of the Village ofTURIN as follows:

Section 1. Title

This local law shall be referred to as a "local law imposing a 6-nnonth extension of the current
Moratorium, known as Local Law No. 01 of 2025, on the acceptance or approval of applications
for permits authorizing the construction or emplacement o f certain solar energy collectors,
generators or battery storage facilities as non-accessory uses in all zoning districts within the
village boundaries.

Section 2. Definitions

SOLAR ENERGY GENERATOR OR COLLECTOR -For purposes of this Local Law, the term "solar
energy generator or collector" shall mean the activity of creating electricity as an alternate
energy source from sunlight. As used in this law the term includes all of the infrastructure,
equipment and accessories used in the processing and battery storage of sunlight into useable
power with a capacity of 25 kilowatts (kw) The term does not include solar energy generation or
collection as an accessory use to an existing residential, commercial or industrial structure; or
installations up t o 24.99 kw.




BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM - One or more devices, assembled, capable of storing
energy to supply electrical energy at a future time, not to include a stand-alone 12-volt car
battery or an electric motor vehicle. A battery energy storage system is classified as a Tier 1 or
Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage System as follows:

       A. Tier 1 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity less then or
            equal to 600kV\/h and, if in a room or enclosed area, consist of only a single energy
            storage system technology.
        B. Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity greater
            than 600kWh or are comprised of more than one storage battery technology in a
            room or enclosed area.

COMMERCIAL ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS - are defined, for the purpose of this local law, as any
rechargeable energy storage system consisting of electrochemical storage batteries, battery
chargers, controls, power conditioning systems, and associated electrical equipment designated
to store and provide electrical power primarily off site or for commercial purposes. Any
installations by, or undertaken on behalf of individual landowners, householders, businesses or
farmer, primarily for personal, residential and onsite use shall not be considered a commercial
Energy Storage System and shall be specifically exempted f r o m this moratorium.



COMPRESSED AIR ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM - A system where a compressed air energy storage
plant can compress air and store the compressed air in a cavern underground. At times when


demand is high, the stored air can be released, and the energy can be utilized during peak
demand times.

PERSON - For the purposes of this local law, the term "person" shall include an individual,
society, club, firm, partnership, joint venture, corporation, or the association of persons, and the
singular shall include the plural number.

VILLAGE - For the purposes of this local law, the term "Village" shall mean the Village ofTURIN.

VILLAGE BOARD. PLANNING BOARD, and ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS - For the purposes of this
local law, the term "Village Board", "Planning Board", and "Zoning Board of Appeals" shall refer
to the respective boards established in and for the Village ofTURIN.

Section 3. Purpose and Intent

Pursuant to the statutory powers vested in the Village ofTURIN to regulate and control land use
and to protect the health, safety, and welfare of its residents, the Village Board of the Village of
TURIN declares a one year moratorium on the acceptance or approval of applications for
permits authorizing the construction or emplacement of solar energy collectors or generators as
non-accessory uses in all zoning districts, as well as a moratorium on any activity associated
therewith or intending to support such process including t h e establishment, implementation,
placement, or construction of associated infrastructure or similar activity in the Village of
TURIN.

Section 4. Legislative Findings

A. The Village finds that there may be an increase in the demand for this type of solar energy
generator or collector in the Village and that it may receive a number of new applications for,
and inquiries about, the establishment or enlargement of energy producing activity within the
Village.

B. The question of integrating such energy production facilities of within the Village's existing
pattern of predominately residential and agricultural land use emphasizes the need for suitable
siting, land use standards with reference to energy production facilities, consistent with
applicable provisions of law.

C. The Village Board of the Village ofTURIN desires to address, in a careful manner, this
integration question on a comprehensive Village-wide basis, rather than on an ad hoc basis, and
to adopt Local Law provisions to properly regulate the same.

Section 5. Scope and Controls

A. For the period of one year following the effective date of this local law, no permits requesting
approval for non-accessory solar energy generators or collectors as herein defined shall be
accepted or approved by any officer or board of the Village ofTURIN.


B. During the effective period of this Local Law:

1. The Village Board shall not consider and/or approve any site plan, approve any special use
permit or other permit authorizing the construction or emplacement of solar energy collectors
or generators as herein defined in all zoning districts within the Village.

2. The Village Zoning Board of Appeals shall not consider and/or grant any variance, special use
permit or other permit authorizing the construction or emplacement of solar energy collectors
or generators as herein defined in all zoning districts within the Village.

3. The Zoning or Codes Enforcement Officer of the Village; shall not consider or issue any
building permit or other permit authorizing the construction or emplacement of solar energy
collectors or generators as herein defined in all zoning districts within the Village.

C. If, within one year, the Village Board adopts a local law relating to the construction or
emplacement of solar energy collectors or generators as herein defined, the moratorium
imposed by this local law shall expire immediately on the date the local law relating to the
construction or emplacement of solar energy collectors or generators as non-accessory uses
takes effect in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

Section 6. Exceptions

This local law shall not apply t o applications for permits or approvals of solar energy generators
or collectors of capacity below 25 kw, or to be installed as any accessory use or structure to an
existing residence, commercial, industrial, or agricultural structure.

Section 7. Term

This moratorium shall be in effect for a period of six months from the date of this Local Law.

Section 8. Violations

Any person violating any of the provisions of this local law shall be guilty of an offense and upon
a conviction thereof, be given a civil penalty of no less than $5,000.00 and no more than
$10,000.00 per day for this violation. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate and
additional violation. An action may be commenced in a court of competent jurisdiction to
recover such penalty. In addition, thereto, violations of this local law shall be subject to being
restrained by injunctive relief.

Section 9. Conflict with Other Laws

This Local Law is enacted pursuant to the provision of the Village Law and the Municipal Home
Rule Law of the State of New York. During the duration of times that this Law is in effect, it shall
take precedence over and shall be considered controlling over contrary laws, ordinances and
provisions including, but not limited to, the statutes set forth in the New York Town Law related
to zoning and subdivision.


Section 10. Severability

If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, article or part of this local law shall be adjudged by
any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, or
invalidate the remainder thereof, but shall be confined in its operations to the clause, sentence,
paragraph, section , article, or part thereof directly involved in the controversy in which such
judgment shall have been rendered.

Section 11. When Effective

This Local Law shall take effect upon the filing at the New York State Secretary of State's office.


                    (Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
                                              strike out that which Is not applicable.)

  1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
  I hereby certify that the lo^LJ^^rinexed     hereto, designated as local law No. 21                                            of 2 0 ^ 5      of
  the-(Coiinty)(City)(Towft]|(^iiageyof "Turin                                                                     was duly passed by the
   Board of Trustees                                           on I^^V 28th         20 25                 jn accordance with the applicable
  (Name of Legislative Body)
  provisions of law.



   2.  (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or                                 er disapproval by the Elective
       Chief Executive Officer*.)
   I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local lawH^o.                                               of 20           of
   the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of                                                                            was duly passed by the
                                                                                               20         , and was (approved)(not approved)
   (Name of Legislative Body)
   (repassed after disapproval) by th                                                                        and was deemed duly adopted
                                           (Elective Ctiief Executive Officer")
                                       , in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.



   3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
   I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.                                       of 20           of
   the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of                                                                              was duly passed by the
                                                                                                        , and was (approved)(not approved)
   (Name of Legislative Body)
   (repassed after disapproval) by the                                                                                            20
                                           (EleciiverChief Executive Officer*)
 Such local law was submitledje-tfie people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
 vote of a majority of^be<fiJalified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
 20        _, in-aricordance with the applicable provisions of law.


 4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was fij                          Requesting referendum.)
 I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.                                      _of 20       of
 the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of                                                                                was duly passed by the
                                                                                                       , and was (approved)(not approved)
  (Name of Legislative Body)
  (repassed after disapproval) by the                                                                                   20          . Such local
                                          (Elective Ch/ef Bf&ctTf/Ve Officer*)
  law was subject to permissive referendum,,^mfTio valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
  20         , in accordance with th>.ai5^cable provisions of law.




    * Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
    be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
    vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.


DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 04/14)                                                                                                                 Page 3 of4


 5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposgd-by^etition.)
 I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto^jieis^nated as local (aw No.                                       of 20        of
 the City of                           ^ i 3 W f f t 0 ^ e n submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
 the Municipal Home Rule Law,,3fld-fiaving received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
 thereon at the (speci3J)(g€rieral) election held on                         20      , became operative.


 6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
 ! hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local lawJsU»r"^                                 of 20          of
 the County of                             State of New York, havixi§-b6^Tsubmltted to the electors at the General Election of
 November                    20         pursuant to su^divtsTtSiisS and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
 received the affirmative vote of a majorityjif^he'qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
 qualified electors of the towns otsaWcounty considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.


 (If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
 I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
 correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
 paragraph J              above.

                                                                   Clerk of the county legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
                                                                   officer designated by local legislative body

(Seal)                                                              Date:




DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 04^-14)                                                                                                       Page 4 of 4


AFFIDAVIT OF PUBLICATION



STATE OF NEW YORK
JEFERSON COUNTY

                                                       WATERTOWN DAILY TIMES




VILLAGE OF TURIN
PO BOX 223
TURIN, NY 13473
UNITED STATES

REFERENCE
ACCOUNT; 104026
ORDER: CAMPAIGN 15787 / LINE 26361 — Special Meeting



Christa Woodward, being duly sworn, affiims that s/he is a legal representative of the Johnson Newspaper Corporation, a corporation duly
organized and existing under the laws of the state of New York, and having its principal place of business in the city of Watertown and that
said corporation is the publisher of Watertown Daily Times, a newspaper pubhshed in the city of Watertown, Jefferson Coun^ and state of
New York, and that a notice, of which the annexed is a printed copy, has been published regularly in said newspaper.




 hfista Woodward, Legal Representative



Published on; 5/23/2025, 5/27/2025



FILED ON: 5/27/2025




Sworn to and subscribed before me this            Cr

   zq^ day of nn o ii loit)


                  STATH ••%%
         • ^.-•OFNKWYORK • . \
             ; NOTARY PUBLIC; ^ |

         i c'--   01SP00254B1   4^ =




                                                                  Page 1 of 1


Client:         104026         VILLAGE OF TURIN          Phone:
                PO BOX 223
Address:        TURIN, NY 13473
                Tel: 315 348-8782
Ad#:            15787
Sales Rep.:     W220           Angel Spencer             Phone:      315-661-2457
                                                         Fax:        (315) 661-2521
Class.:         ANNOUNCEMENTS --> Announcements
Publications;   Watertown Daily Times
Class.:         ANNOUNCEMENTS - > Announcements
Publications:   Watertown Daily Times
Class.:
Publications:   Watertown Daily Times
Class.:         ANNOUNCEMENTS - > Announcements
Publications:   Lowville Journal & Republican
Class.:         ANNOUNCEMENTS           Announcements
Publications:   Lowville Journal & Republican
Start Date:     5/21/2025                                End Date:   5/28/2025
PO. #:
Paid Amount:
Total Price:    $ 153.26



                                          PREVIEW

                            Public Notice:          LEWIS
                            COUNTY NOTICE ; The
                            Village of Turin will open &
                            hold a special meeting for a
                            public hearing for a new
                            Local Law 01-2025 to extend
                            the current Moratorium on
                            solar    energy     collectors,
                            generators, battery energy
                            storage systems, commercial
                            energy storage systems &
                            com pressed     air     energy
                            storage system as non-
                                           Page 1 of 2


Mev y Uwe,

were ree
be held on May 28th, 2025.
@ 6 00 PM located at the
municipal office at 6312 East
Main Street Turin New York
13473

Page 2 of 2

