PROPOSED LOCAL LAW NO. OF 2025 OF THE TOWN OF HURLEY

A LOCAL LAW TO IMPOSE A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON
BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM (BESS) FACILITIES

BE IT ENACTED by the Town Board of the Town of Hurley, New York, as follows:
§ 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Local Law shall be known and cited as the "2025 Battery Energy Storage System Facilities
Moratorium Law of the Town of Hurley."

§ 2. PURPOSE, INTENT, AND FINDINGS.

The Town Board of Town of Hurley (the "Town Board") is concerned with the impact of battery
energy storage systems ("BESS") on, among other things, surrounding properties,
neighborhoods, the environment, and public health and safety. Understanding the impacts of
BESS and implementing appropriate regulations for the installation and use of BESS that
mitigate or avoid negative impacts is necessary to protect public health, safety, and quality of life
in the Town of Hurley (the "Town"). The Town Board desires that Town staff and consultants
conduct a study of BESS for this purpose.

Town Board finds it imperative that the Town undertake a thorough examination of these systems
to identify any possible threats to public health, safety and welfare as well as evaluate the
potential for environmental degradation and other potentially significant planning concerns
associated with BESS facilities that may affect the quality of life of town residents.

Thus, the Town Board finds that a temporary moratorium is specifically determined to be
necessary (i) to provide adequate time for the Town to conduct an appropriate study of BESS, (ii)
to prepare recommendations related to BESS, including additions or amendments to the Town
Zoning Code, (iii) for the Town Board and other involved boards and agencies, and the public to
fully and carefully consider these recommendations, and (iv) if applicable, for the Town Board to
enact these recommendations. Notably, the Town of Hurley Code does not currently provide for
the regulation of BESS.

Additionally, the Town Board is aware of the rights of property owners to utilize their properties
in accordance with existing laws and is sensitive to the protection of these rights.

§ 3. AUTHORITY
This moratorium is enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Hurley pursuant to its

authority to adopt local laws under Article IX of the New York State Constitution and
Municipal Home Rule Law Section 10.

§ 4. MORATORIUM


In order to enact appropriate legislation to address the concerns set forth herein, the Town shall
establish a committee to provide the Town Board with a comprehensive plan as to how to
appropriately regulate BESS including a plan as to where, within the Town BESS may be
permitted, and whether limiting the number of such facilities to insure that businesses of this
nature can operate, with a minimum of detrimental cumulative impacts to the community. The
Town Board has found further that unless reasonable measures are taken for an interim period to
protect the public interest pending the completion of the necessary studies, meetings, and
required public hearings, BESS may occur within the Town which would frustrate the plan that
the Town Board may wish to enact. In light of the fact that the characteristics of BESS may have
a detrimental impact on the community if not reasonably regulated, including regulating the
locations where BESS may operate, and regulating the size and physical characteristics of BESS
at permitted locations, the Town Board has determined that a thorough examination of these
issues, including zoning regulations with respect to BESS, is necessary in order to protect the
future health, safety, and welfare of present and future residents of the Town. This review will
likely culminate in amendments to Chapter 210 "Zoning" and possibly other sections of the
Town Code.

The Town requires time to accomplish the technical aspects of its review and to enact any
required amendments. Since it would be improper for development to proceed in a manner
potentially contrary to Chapter 210 and other sections of the Town Code as they may ultimately
be amended, a moratorium is necessary and appropriate to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the present and future residents and property owners of the Town as well as the greater
community. The Town Board find that same will be best served by implementing a moratorium
on the development of BESS, for a short period of time to permit the Town Board, together with
staff and consultants retained by the Town, including the Town Engineer, Town Attorney, Town
Planner, and Building Inspector, to complete their review of BESS within the Town, and to act
on the important recommendations of such persons. Accordingly, the Town Board hereby enacts
a temporary, limited moratorium on BESS whereby no approval for, permitting, or including
BESS shall be granted by the Town, including but not limited to any approval of a zoning
change, variance, subdivision, site plan, special use permit, building permit, demolition permit,
or sign permit.

The Town Board finds that the necessary, temporary action proposed by this local law consisting
of deliberative information collection as part of the continuing administration and management
of the Town constitutes a Type II action under the New York State Environmental Quality
Review Act and therefore requires no further environmental review:

§ 4. REGULATIONS.

A. Except as otherwise provided herein, effective on the effective date of this Local Law and
continuing for a period of six (6) months after the effective date of this Local Law, unless the
Town Board by resolution, establishes an earlier date, no building permit, special permit,
preliminary or final site plan review, variance, certificate of occupancy, or other permit or
approval relating to construction, alteration, modification, conversion, or change of use with
respect to BESS may be issued, except in the event of an emergency as determined by the


Building Inspector. Nor shall any application be accepted with respect to any property for which
the use of same for a BESS is contemplated, nor shall any business begin to operate as a BESS
during this moratorium period.

B. This moratorium may be extended by a period of up to six (6) months by resolution of the
Town Board upon a finding of the necessity for such extension.

§ 5. APPEALS / APPLICATIONS FOR RELIEF.

A person or entity with standing may appeal to the Town Board for relief from the provisions of
this moratorium upon a showing that such relief is necessary to avoid unnecessary financial
hardship or a taking of private property beyond what is permissible by valid regulation. The
Town Board shall have the power to, and may, grant appropriate relief from this Local Law
subject to whatever conditions are deemed necessary to protect the public. Applications for such
relief shall be by verified petition to the Town Board and shall be supported by competent
financial evidence. The Town Board shall hold a hearing on any such petition within thirty (30)
days and decide such applications within fifteen (15) days after the closing of such hearing. The
default of the Town Board in acting on such application shall not result in a default granting of
such relief, but shall permit the applicant to seek such relief pursuant to Article 78 of the CPLR
to grant such relief or so much relief as determined by the Town Board to be necessary and
appropriate, as it relates to this moratorium. The decision of the Town Board on any such
application for relief shall be final.

§ 6. PENALTIES FOR OFFENSES.

Any person, firm, entity, or corporation that shall construct, erect, enlarge, convert or otherwise
add to any building or structure in violation of the provisions of this Local Law shall be subject
to penalties as otherwise provided by law or ordinance of the Town for such violation.

§ 7. SEVERABILITY.

If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this ordinance is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, the portion of the ordinance declared to be invalid will be
deemed a separate, distinct, and independent portion and the declaration will not affect the
validity of the remaining portions hereof, which will continue in full force and effect.

The invalidity of any word, section, clause, paragraph, sentence part or provision of this Local
Law shall not affect the validity of any part of this Local Law which shall be given effect without
such invalid part or parts.

§ 8. REPEAL OF EXISTING LAWS.

All ordinances, local laws, or parts thereof in conflict with the provisions of this Local
Law are hereby superseded and suspended for the duration of this moratorium and for any


additional period that this Local Law is extended. This Local Law also supersedes, amends and
takes precedence over any inconsistent provisions of New York State Town Law, the Town’s
Municipal Home Rule powers, pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law Sections 10 and 22. The
Town Law provisions intended to be superseded include all of the Article 16 of the Town Law,
Sections 261- 285 inclusive and any other provisions of law that the Town may supersede
pursuant to the Municipal Home Rule Law and the Constitution of the State of New York. The
courts are directed to take notice of this legislative intent and to apply such intent in the event
the Town has failed to specify any provisions of law that may require supersession. The Town
Board hereby declares that it would have enacted this local law and superseded such
inconsistent provisions had it been apparent.

§ 9. EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM.

The moratorium provided for by this ordinance shall be effective immediately, shall remain in
effect for a period of six (6) months, and may be extended for an additional period of up to six
(6) months by resolution of the Town Board upon a finding that same is deemed necessary by the
Town Board to complete the purpose and intent of the moratorium set forth herein.

This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon adoption and filing with the Secretary of
State as provided by the Municipal Home Rule Law.
Dated: , 2025, Town of Hurley

BY ORDER OF THE TOWN BOARD OF THE TOWN OF HURLEY
LYNNE BAILEY, TOWN CLERK
