New York State

Department of State
YORK Department of State DIVISION OF CORPORATIONS,
STATE | Corporations, State Records & UCC STATE RECORDS AND

UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE
One Commerce Plaza

99 Washington Ave.

Albany, NY 12231-0001

dos.ny.gov
Local Law Filing
Pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §27
Local Law Number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government listed below:
L of the year 20 26

Local Law Title: \oratorium on Commercial Renewable Energy

Be it enacted by the !own Board of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

CL] County CL) city Town LJ Village

(Select one)

of Greig as follows on the attached pages:

(Name of Local Government)

For Office Use Only

Department of State Local Law Index Number: of the year 20

(The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
local law number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government.)

DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25) page 1 of 3


Town of Greig
Local Law 2026-01Moratorium on Commercial
Renewable Energy Systems

ALOCAL LAW ESTABLISHING A MORATORIUM ON COMMERCIAL RENEWABLE
ENERGY SYSTEMS, INCLUDING COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS,
WIND ENERGY PRIMARY SYSTEMS (WEPS), BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE
SYSTEMS (BESS), AND COMPRESSED AIR ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS
(CAESS)

WHEREAS, the Town of Greig wishes to enact a twelve-month (12) moratorium on
commercial renewable energy and energy storage systems including medium and large
solar energy systems, battery energy storage systems (BESS), wind energy primary
systems (WEPS) and compressed air energy storage systems (CAESS) to allow time to
complete the development of the Comprehensive Plan to ensure any such regulations
align with such plan and

WHEREAS, the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority has
stated that “a comprehensive plan outlining the goals and policies for the installation,
operation, maintenance, and decommissioning of battery energy storage systems must
be adopted by the local governing board”, and

WHEREAS, the Town Board finds that time is necessary to await, develop, review,
amend, and update multiple sections of the Town Code to ensure consistency with the
Town's proposed Comprehensive Plan; and

. WHEREAS, as directed by Section 5 of NYSERDA’s Battery Energy Storage System
Model Law, the Town Board finds that time is necessary to await, develop, review,
amend, and update multiple sections of the Town Code to ensure consistency with the
Town's Comprehensive Plan, currently under development with anticipated adoption in
spring of 2026; and

WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to halt the acceptance and approval of
applications for medium and large solar energy systems, all BESS, and CAESS for
twelve (12) months to ensure orderly and effective planning and code updates.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ENACTED by the Town Board of the Town of Greig as
follows:

Section 1. Moratorium

The moratorium on the construction, installation, and operation of commercial solar
energy systems, BESS, WEPS, and Compressed Air Energy Storage Systems
(CAESS) is established for a period of twelve (12) months from the effective date of this
Local Law. During this period, no permits, approvals, or other authorizations shall be
issued for such systems.


Section 2. Purpose
The purpose of this moratorium is to provide the Town sufficient time to:

1. Complete the comprehensive planning process thoroughly and thoughtfully with
appropriate public outreach and input to ensure alignment with the overall
constituents and legal requirements.

2. Review and amend the Town Code, including zoning and other regulations, to
reflect the objectives of its developing Comprehensive Plan; and

3. Ensure that all commercial renewable energy systems are properly regulated to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the community.

4. This moratorium does not apply to any solar panel system or array installed by
individual landowners, householders, or farmers for their own personal use or the
use of a small business (on-site consumption).

5. This moratorium, likewise, does not apply to battery storage operations that are
used for 100% on-site consumption and have a capacity of less than 600 kWh.

Section 3. Scope
This moratorium applies to all new applications or pending applications for permits,

approvals, or authorizations related to medium and large solar energy systems, Tier 1 &
2 BESS, WEPS and CAESS within the Town of Greig.

Section 4. Enforcement
Any construction, installation, or operation of solar energy systems, BESS, WEPS or

CAESS during the moratorium period is prohibited and may be subject to enforcement
actions under the Town Code.

Section 5. Definitions
BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM (BESS):

One or more devices, assembled, capable of storing energy in order to supply electrical
energy at a future time, not to include a stand-alone 12-volt car battery or an electric

motor vehicle. A battery energy storage system is classified as a small or large battery
energy storage system as follows:

A. Tier 1- also known as Small Battery Energy Storage Systems, which have
an aggregate energy capacity less than or equal to 600kWh or are
comprised of one storage battery technology in a room or enclosed area.

B. Tier 2- also known as large battery energy storage systems, have an
aggregate energy capacity greater than 600kWh, or are comprised of
more than one storage battery technology in a room or enclosed area.


COMPRESSED AIR ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM (CAES):

A system that stores energy by compressing air and storing it in underground caverns
or above-ground tanks, which is later released to generate electricity. This includes any
system designed for commercial energy storage and discharge, excluding small-scale
systems used solely for on-site residential or agricultural purposes.

SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, LARGE:

Any solar energy system that cumulatively on a lot meets one or more of the following
criteria:

A. Has a rated direct current (DC) capacity equal to or greater than 25 kW,

B. Is intended to supply energy for over 50% utilization into the utility grid for
the purpose of off-site sale or consumption, or

C. Has a total ground surface area of greater than 4,000 square feet.

SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, MEDIUM
A ground-mounted solar energy system that meets the following criteria:

A. Has a rated direct current (DC) capacity of no more than 24.99 kW,

B. The total ground surface area not exceeding 4,000 square feet,

C. Is designed to produce energy for either on-site use or partial off-site
consumption through net-metering or community solar arrangements.

Systems exceeding either the capacity or surface area threshold or producing
energy for offsite use (excluding off-site use through net-metering or community
solar arrangements) shall be classified as Large Solar Energy Systems.

Section 6. Environmental Review

This Local Law is subject to the requirements of the New York State Environmental
Quality Review Act (“SEQRA’), Article 8 of the Environmental Conservation Law, and its
implementing regulations at 6 NYCRR Part 617.

The Town Board hereby determines that the adoption of this Local Law constitutes a
Type Il action under SEQRA §617.5(c)(30), as it involves the adoption of a moratorium
on land development. Type II actions have been determined not to have a significant
impact on the environment and therefore do not require further environmental review.

Section 7. Severability

If any part of this Local Law is held invalid, the remainder shall remain in full force and
effect.

Section 8. Effective Date

This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon the Town Board's adoption and/or
filing with the Secretary of State. It shall remain in effect for twelve (12) months unless
amended or repealed by the Town Board.


Local Law Filing

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)

| hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number 1 of 20. 26 of
the-(Gounty}Gity)(Town)(Vilage) of Greig was duly passed by the
Town Board on January 14 2026 in accordance

(Name of Legislative Body)

with the applicable provisions of law.

ho
oO

a
BAG WAS

orn

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be
none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f (Rev. 02/25) Page 2 of 3


Local Law Filing

Hy-of- bay bmittad +
ty-OF Raving -SUBAHtedt

referend +4,
FETEFE REA PurFSdantte:

+, ibed: | low number £20,
REFEtO, ASCADEE AS 186aHaw AHADer te

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
| further certify that | have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a

correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in

the paragraph 1 above. _
Veer en
Clerk of the county legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body
(Seal) Alriz{[ae

(Date)

DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25) page 3 of 3
