                                   TOWN OF CAIRO
                                LOCAL LAW #2 OF 2025
                LOCAL LAW IMPOSING A TEMPORARY TOWN-WIDE SIX-MONTH
                  MORATORIUM ON BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS

Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Cairo as follows:

Section 1. Title.

      This Local Law shall be referred to as the “Local Law Imposing a Town-Wide Temporary Six-
Month Moratorium on Battery Energy Storage Systems.”

Section 2. Purpose and Intent.

        Pursuant to the statutory powers vested in the Town of Cairo by the Municipal Home Rule Law of
the State of New York, to regulate and control land use, and to protect the health, safety and welfare of its
residents, the Town Board hereby declares a temporary six (6) month town-wide moratorium on the review
and/or approval of any new or existing Battery Energy Storage Systems.

        The Town of Cairo does not currently have site plan review or other similar land use regulations
relating to battery energy storage systems. The Town Board has determined that it is necessary to draft,
review and adopt such regulations to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the Town. A
committee will be appointed to accomplish this task. The Committee will focus on the importance of
protecting, revitalizing and maintaining the Town and encourage smart development which would be an
integral part of the Town’s economic growth.

        The Town Board finds and determines that based upon recent activities, applications and/or inquiries
currently before the Town relating to battery energy storage systems and based upon the opinion of the
Attorney for the Town such applications and/or inquiries, if approved, could have a deleterious effect on
Town’s aforementioned efforts.

       The Town Board further finds and determines that it needs the period of time covered by the
moratorium imposed herein in order to carefully complete the adoption of a new local law, schedule and
hold the required public hearing on either amendments to existing Local Laws or the enactment of new
Local Laws, perform the appropriate environmental reviews thereof, comply with applicable provisions of
law, adopt the Local Law(s), and file the same with the Secretary of State of the State of New York.

Section 3. Scope of Controls.

A.      During the effective period of this Local Law, the Town Board and/or any other municipal body,
including but not limited to the Planning Board and the Building Department, shall not begin or continue
to review applications for or grant any approvals relating to battery energy storage systems within the Town.

B.     No new or existing applications for a battery energy storage system in the Town shall be considered
by any board, officer or agency of the Town while the moratorium imposed by this Local Law is in effect.

C.      The Town Board reserves the right to direct the Town Building Inspector/Code Enforcement
Officer/Zoning Enforcement Officer to revoke or rescind any Building Permits or Certificates of Occupancy
issued in violation of this Local Law.


                                                     1
D.     Definitions. For the purposes of this local law, all terms utilized herein shall be defined in
accordance with the NYS Town Law and as follows.

BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM: One or more devices, assembled together, including
dedicated-use and nondedicated-use buildings, capable of storing energy in order to supply electrical energy
at a future time, not to include a stand-alone 12-volt car battery or an electric motor vehicle.

Section 4. Term.

        The moratorium imposed by this Local Law shall be in effect for a period of six (6) months from
the effective date of this Local Law. The Town Board reserves the right to enact subsequent short-term
periodic moratoria in the future, in the event it determines that such subsequent local laws or extensions are
necessary and in the public’s interest. The Board reserves the right to terminate this moratorium prior to
the end of the six (6) month period in the event that the new land use laws and/or revisions are enacted
before such expiration.

Section 5. Hardship.

A.      Should any owner of property affected by this Local Law suffer an unnecessary hardship in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of this Local Law, then the owner of said property may apply to the Town
Board of the Town in writing for a variance from strict compliance with this Local Law upon submission
of proof of such unnecessary hardship for a legally operating use. For the purposes of this Local Law,
unnecessary hardship shall not be the mere delay or normal financial loss in being permitted to make an
application or waiting for a decision on the application for a permit during the period of the moratorium
imposed by this Local Law.

B.      Procedure. Upon submission of a written application to the Town Clerk by the property owner
seeking a variance from this Local Law, the Town Board shall, within thirty (30) days of receipt of said
application, schedule a Public Hearing on said application upon five (5) days’ written notice in the official
newspaper of the Town. At said Public Hearing, the property owner and any other parties wishing to present
evidence with regard to the application shall have an opportunity to be heard, and the Town Board shall,
within fifteen (15) days of the close of said Public Hearing, render its decision either granting or denying
the application for a variance from the strict requirements of this Local Law. If the Town Board determines
that a property owner will suffer an unnecessary hardship if this Local Law is strictly applied to a particular
property, then the Town Board shall grant a variance of the application of this Local Law to a particular
property, then the Town Board shall grant a variance of the application of this Local Law to the minimum
extent necessary to provide the property owner relief from strict compliance with this Local Law.

C.      Supersession. This variance section and the process and procedure of this Local Law supersede the
New York State Town Law §§267, 267-a and 267-b in accordance with the powers granted in and pursuant
to the provisions of §10 of the Municipal Home Rule Law and §10 of the Statute of Local Governments. It
is the intent of the Town Board pursuant to §10 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, to supersede the
provisions of the Town Law set forth above relating to the reviewing body and process and procedure
governing the granting of variances.

Section 6. Penalties.

       Any person, firm or corporation that shall establish or develop any new battery energy storage
system in violation of the provisions of this Local Law shall be subject to:


                                                      2
A.     Such penalties as may otherwise be provided for in the Town’s Zoning Law and by applicable state
and local laws, ordinances, rules, regulations of the Town for violations; and

B.   Injunctive relief in favor of the Town to cease any and all such actions which conflict with this Local
Law.

Section 7. Validity.

        The invalidity of any provision of this Local Law shall not affect the validity of any other provision
of this Local Law which can be given effect without such invalid provision.

Section 8. Effective Date.

This Local Law shall take effect immediately when it is filed in the Office of the Secretary of State in
accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.




                                                      3
