                                     COUNTY OF SUFFOLK                                       Z-1




                                            Edward P. Romaine
                                          SUFFOLK COUNTY EXECUTIVE
                                               Department of
                                     Economic Development and Planning

             Sarah Lansdale                                                Division of Planning
             Commissioner                                                   and Environment


                                            STAFF REPORT
  SECTIONS A14-14 THRU A14-25 OF THE SUFFOLK COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE CODE

 Applicant:    Town of Islip
 Municipality: Town of Islip
 Location:     Town-Wide

 Received:              2/9/2024
 File Number:           IS-24-01

 Jurisdiction:          Moratorium – Amendment to the Zoning Law - Islip

OVERVIEW

The Town of Islip is requesting a six (6) month moratorium on the issuance of permits and/or
approvals for Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) facilities.

The proposed moratorium text extension is provided below, verbatim from the Town:

   § 68-457 Moratorium for the Development of Battery Energy Storage Systems

   A. Authority.

        This moratorium is adopted pursuant to Article IX of the New York State Constitution,
        §2(c)(6) and (10), New York Statute of Local Governments, § 10, Subdivisions 1 and 7, §§
        261 through 263 of the Town Law, and § 10 of the Municipal Home Rule Law of the State
        of New York. In particular, this chapter shall supersede those provisions of the Town Code
        and New York State Law which require the Town Board, Planning Board, and/or Zoning
        Board of Appeals to accept, process, and/or approve applications for the development of
        Battery Energy Storage Systems within specified statutory time periods.

   B. Legislative intent.

        This ordinance is adopted to impose a six-month moratorium on the issuance of permits
        and/or approvals for Battery Energy Storage Systems. The Town of Islip recognizes that
        Battery Energy Storage Systems (“BESS”) are a key component to the viability and
        promotion of renewable energy sources. However, since the technology of these systems


Suffolk County Planning Commission                       Page 1 of 6                         March 6, 2024


        is still in its infancy, there is a significant amount of recent public concern about the
        potentially volatile nature of lithium-ion batteries, which stems from fires at three different
        BESS facilities in the State of New York from May through July of 2023. In response to the
        recent BESS fires, New York State Governor Kathy Hochul found it necessary to form an
        Inter-Agency Fire Safety Working Group tasked with ensuring the safety of BESS across
        New York. There have been no notable findings or recommendations published by this
        group as of the adoption of this ordinance.

        Therefore, the Town Board, Planning Board, and Zoning Board of Appeals need additional
        information and assurances about the safety of these types of facilities, including but not
        limited to best practices for fire suppression and emergency response, ensuring the
        technology and availability of equipment necessary for the Town’s Hazardous Materials
        Unit and local fire departments should a fire occur, precautions to take related to gas
        emissions and deterring any necessary fire suppression chemicals from impacting
        groundwater, and the adequacy of location and other standards for siting these facilities.
        Given these concerns and the current lack of relevant data and information on this issue,
        it is necessary for the Town Board to enact a six (6) month limited moratorium on the
        issuance of permits and/or approvals for BESS pursuant to Town Code § 68-456 while
        these issues are further considered and the Code is adequately revised to address any
        outstanding concerns.

   C. Definitions.

        The applicable definitions for this section shall be the same as those set forth in § 68-456.

   D. Moratorium.

        No new permit, land use application, or request for the development of BESS shall be
        accepted pursuant to § 68-456, nor shall any pending applications continue to be
        processed or decided by the Town Board, the Planning Board, or the Zoning Board of
        Appeals, or any other agency, department, or office of the Town of Islip during the
        Moratorium Period.

        No building permit, BESS permit, or Planning Board special permit for BESS shall be issued
        by the Town Board, the Planning Board, the Zoning Board of Appeals, or any other agency,
        department, or office of the Town of Islip during the Moratorium Period.

   E. Moratorium Period.

        The moratorium period shall be in effect for a period of six (6) months following the effective
        date of this ordinance. Following the moratorium period, this ordinance shall be without
        further force and effect unless the moratorium period is extended by a Town Board
        resolution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the moratorium period shall not exceed eighteen
        (18) months.

   F. Exclusions.

        None.

   G. Applications that may exempted.

       1) In reliance upon the initial findings issued by the New York State Inter-Agency Fire



Suffolk County Planning Commission                     Page 2 of 6                          March 6, 2024


            Safety Working Group, which were released on December 21, 2023 and determined that
            there has been no evidence of significant off-site migration of contaminants associated
            with the three (3) recent fires at BESS facilities in Jefferson County, Orange County, and
            Suffolk County, the Town of Islip has set forth below a pathway for certain qualified
            applications to be exempted from this moratorium.

       2) Applications may be exempted from the provisions of this ordinance following a public
          hearing on due notice before the Town Planning Board and service of a written notice
          upon the local Fire Department for the proposed siting of the BESS. Upon such
          application, the Planning Board shall consider:

            a. The emergency response plan including evacuation orders to be followed in the
               event of a fire or any other emergency at the facility and satisfactory evidence that
               precautions are in place to suppress a fire and mitigate the extent of damage to the
               surroundings and environment;
            b. The size of subject parcel and the wattage of the BESS facility;
            c. The proximity of the applicant’s proposed BESS facility to residential areas as well
               as sensitive and high-risk populations including but not limited to hospitals, nursing
               homes, assisted living facilities, schools;
            d. The extent of the proposed development and/or disturbance of the applicant’s
               premises;
            e. The environmental significance, if any, of the applicant’s parcel and the proposed
               development’s impact upon the environment, including existing transportation
               resources;
            f. Compatibility of the proposed development with the aesthetic resources of the
               community or with the existing community or neighborhood character;
            g. Compatibility of the proposed development with the recommendations of the Master
               Plan, the Comprehensive Plan Update, and all adopted Comprehensive Plans and
               plan elements henceforth; and
            h. Whether the application meets the minimum requirements of Section 68-456.

       3) In making a determination under this subsection, the Planning Board may obtain and
          consider written reports from the Town of Islip Hazardous Materials Unit and such other
          sources as required in the judgment of the Planning Board and consistent with the
          purpose of this chapter. A grant of an exemption to an applicant’s premises shall include
          a determination of hardship and unique circumstances which do not generally apply
          throughout the Town and a finding that the grant of an exemption will be in harmony
          with, and will not be unduly disruptive to, the goals and purposes of the assessment
          undertaken pursuant to this ordinance.

       4) An application under this subsection must be accompanied by a $1,000.00 fee and 8
          copies of the application, together with the applicant’s written undertaking to pay all out-
          of-pocket costs incurred by the Town in studies and/or by retainer of resource personnel
          relating to this hearing, review and determination of such application, in form and
          substance acceptable to the Planning Board.

   H. Compliance with SEQRA.

        Pursuant to 6 NYCRR Section 617.5(c)(36), the imposition of a six-month moratorium is a
        Type II action, and therefore, no further SEQRA review is required.



Suffolk County Planning Commission                     Page 3 of 6                          March 6, 2024


   I.   Enforcement.

        Any violation of the moratorium shall be subject to the same enforcement requirements,
        including the civil and criminal penalties, provided for in the zoning or land use regulations
        of the Town of Islip.

   J. Severability.

        The invalidity or unenforceability of any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause,
        provision, or phrase of this ordinance, as declared by the valid judgment of any court of
        competent jurisdiction, shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other section,
        subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, provision, or phrase, which shall remain in full
        force and effect.

   K. Effective Date.

        This ordinance shall take effect ten (10) days after the text of the ordinance, or a summary
        or abstract thereof, is published in either the official newspaper of the Town of Islip or, if
        there is none, in a newspaper designated by the Town Board having general circulation in
        the Town pursuant to New York State Town Law §§ 133 and 264.

BACKGROUND

BESS type facilities generally consist of rows of rechargeable batteries housed in self-contained,
interconnected storage units. These facilities typically operate by drawing surplus energy from the
local power grid during periods of low usage and storing it for later distribution back into the grid
during peak demand. However, they can also be used as direct storage for electricity produced
by renewable energy production facilities, like wind and solar farms. In either case, BESS stabilize
the local power grid by ensuring reliability during periods when the grid might otherwise
experience a partial or total deficit in voltage, commonly known as “brownouts” and “blackouts”.
Thus, proponents of BESS offer that these facilities can reinforce the local power grid not only on
a daily or routine basis, but also during emergencies when demand is especially high or when
electrical transmission from outside the local grid is severed.

From a land use perspective, BESS facilities are generally cited as a low-impact uses. Once a
facility is constructed and operational, it often requires no regular staffing, only routine
maintenance. This results in virtually no traffic, and almost no need for onsite parking. The
facilities can also be monitored remotely, which further reduces traffic, and onsite staffing and
parking. Site lighting at BESS facilities is also largely unnecessary, except for security purposes.
The absence of employees also means there is virtually no water consumption at BESS facilities,
and commensurately, little to no sewage. Noise (generated by cooling fans) is often the main
potentially significant planning concern associated with BESS facilities; however, noise is not
always a problem depending on the size and configuration of a project, and the industry has
implemented methods of noise mitigation (i.e., sound barriers and landscaping) in instances
where noise may be an issue.

Opponents of these facilities have raised public safety concerns over the presence of highly
flammable substances, such as from lithium-ion batteries, and possible air and groundwater
contamination. Historically, concerns about such threats were resolved by zoning certain uses out
of residential areas and restricting them to high-intensity industrial districts. However, that is not
always feasible with BESS, as these facilities must connect to the local power grid through a
substation with adequate capacity to accommodate the transmission between the facility and the



Suffolk County Planning Commission                     Page 4 of 6                         March 6, 2024


grid. The greater the distance between a BESS facility and the substation, the less efficient the
transmission will be. As a result, designing a viable BESS facility often requires in some cases
that a facility be located in or near a residential district.

The Town of Islip enacted its BESS zoning regulations in July 2022, set forth in Section 68-456
of       the       Town’s         Zoning       Code       (https://www.lilanduseandzoning.com/wp-
content/uploads/sites/128/2023/01/Islip-1.pdf). The Town of Islip operates on a three (3) tier
classification system, with Tier III being the largest (601 kWh or greater) followed by Tier II (81-
600 kWh), and then Tier I (80 kwH or smaller). Tier I BESS are permitted in all zoning districts in
the Town. Tier II BESS are permitted in the Town’s B-1, B-2, and B-3 Business District in addition
to its Industrial Districts (excluding Industrial Business [I-B]). Tier III BESS are restricted to the
Industrial 1 and Industrial 2 Districts only. In addition to imposing design standards and
decommissioning requirements similar to Brookhaven and Huntington, the Town of Islip code
includes specific provisions regarding commissioning plans, project operations, and safety during
a project’s lifetime.

On Long Island to date, four (4) of Long Island’s thirteen (13) towns have adopted BESS zoning
regulations: the Towns of Huntington, Brookhaven, Southampton, and Islip. However, nearly half
of the Towns now in Suffolk County have ongoing moratoriums for BESS facilities, as heard
by the Suffolk County Planning Commission over the past year, as summarized below:
        The Town of Southampton extended their ongoing six (6) month moratorium (August 2023
         to February 2024) for an additional six (6) months (to August 2024).
        The Town of Riverhead adopted a three (3) month moratorium in November 2023.
        The Town of Huntington adopted a six (6) month moratorium in September 2023.
        The Town of Southold adopted a six (6) month in April 2023 that they renewed for an
         additional six (6) months to April 2024, and is currently in the process of requesting an
         additional twelve (12) month extension.
        The Town of Islip in in the process of adopting a six (6) month moratorium as of March
         2024 (this application).

The Suffolk County Planning Commission approved all of these applications, and in the majority
of these cases, required and/or requested that the municipality return to the Commission at either
the half-way point or at the end of the moratorium to report on its progress. The Commission also
encouraged each municipality to review applicable guidelines by other Long Island municipalities
on the subject and work with them as needed, as well as to continue to monitor the Governor’s
task force and any statewide recommendations.

                                        STAFF ANALYSIS
As noted in the past by the Suffolk County Planning Commission, a moratorium on development
is a local law or ordinance that suspends the right of property owners to obtain development
approvals while the community takes time to consider, draft or adopt land use plans or rules to
respond to new or changing circumstances not adequately dealt with by its current law. A
moratorium preserves the status quo for a reasonable time. A moratorium is, from one
perspective, the most extreme land use action that a municipality can take because it suspends
completely the rights of owners to use their property. Such development moratoria may be general
or specific. A general imposes a ban on all development within a community (allowing for certain
hardship exemptions), while a specific moratorium may prevent development approvals in a
specific geographic area or of a certain type of development.




Suffolk County Planning Commission                    Page 5 of 6                          March 6, 2024


Staff finds that this proposed moratorium is intended to be specific and should not restrict all
development on any or all parcels within the Town; rather, it is understood that the proposed
moratorium is limited to BESS facilities only, and for only six (6) months to allow the Town to
review and update their zoning code for such facilities.

Staff also notes that the Town was waiting for the finalized recommendations to be provided by
the State from the Inter-Agency Fire Safety Working Group (https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-
Programs/Energy-Storage-Program/New-York-Inter-Agency-Fire-Safety-Working-Group),             of
which preliminary recommendations were recently released on February 6, 2024. The New York
State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) has now made available a BESS
Guidebook that contains information, tools, and step-by-step instructions to support local
governments managing battery energy storage system development in their communities. The
Guidebook provides local officials with in-depth details about the permitting and inspection
process to ensure efficiency, transparency, and safety in their communities. Local communities
can download the full Energy Storage Guidebook or access individual chapters
(https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/Clean-Energy-Siting-Resources/Battery-Energy-
Storage-Guidebook). Additional guidelines may continue to become available later on in the year.

                                     STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends Approval of proposed Local Law of the Town of Islip for a six (6) month
moratorium on the issuance of permits and/or approvals of Battery Energy Storage System
(BESS), subject to the following comments:

    1. The Town should review the now available Model Law by NYSERDA that is intended to
       help local government officials and agencies having jurisdictions to adopt legislations and
       regulations to responsibly accommodate BESS in their communities, as the available
       Model Law lays out procedural frameworks and substantive requirements for residential,
       commercial, and utility-scale BESS facilities. (https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-
       Programs/Clean-Energy-Siting-Resources/Battery-Energy-Storage-Guidebook)
    2. The Town should confirm that the temporary moratorium will only apply to BESS related
       applications and not deem a larger proposed land use application unfit for review if a
       portion of such proposal includes a BESS facility; rather that BESS portion of such a
       proposed application may not move forward but yet allow the remainder of said application
       to continue to be reviewed by the Town.
    3. The Town should consider allowing certain exclusions under their proposed moratorium
       regulations in order to meet potential and applicable legal requirements.
    4. The Town is encouraged to review and coordinate with other Long Island municipalities
       on their review of updates to local, state and national regulations that may relate to BESS
       facilities, which could help the Town better understand applicable appropriate regulations
       that would allow for the development of these facilities while adhering to the Town’s public
       safety, land use planning and other concerns.




Suffolk County Planning Commission                  Page 6 of 6                          March 6, 2024


     MORATORIUM – TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON THE ISSUANCE OF APPROVALS                                                                                                                                                                                                    Town of Islip -
     AND/OR PERMITS FOR BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS (BESS) FACILITIES                                                                                                                                                                                    Suffolk County, New York

C
Â
N
                                                                                                                                          C
                                                                                                                                          Â347
                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                               76
                                                                                                                      467
                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                                                         16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Document Path: H:\Cartography\gisdata\carto5\ArcMap_Projects_2024\CD_24_02_SCPCreviewmaps\IS_24_01_IslipMoratoriumonBESS\IS_24_01_IslipMoratoriumonBESS.aprx - Date Saved: 2/29/2024 1:32 PM - Author:
                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                        106                              §
                                                                                                                                                         ¨
                                                                                                                                                         ¦
                                                                                                                                                         495


43                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                          47                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           97
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           83
                                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                                    Â
                                                                                                                    SA
                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                          100
                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                           29                                                              490

                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                          13
                                                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                                                                                                      Â
                                                                                                                                                                      454                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Â
                                42                                        C
                                                                          Â 231
                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                 17                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                        93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                112


                                                                                                                                          C
                                                                                                                                          Â
                                                                                                                                          111                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              61            4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            99

                                                                                               4
                                                                                               57
                                                                                                              C
                                                                                                              Â
                                                                                                              SO                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                          112


                                                                                                                                                         C
                                                                                                                                                         Â
                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                         27
                                                                       34

                                   C
                                   Â109                                                                                4
                                                                                                                       13A       4
                                                                                                                                 50
                                                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                                                    Â
                                                                                                                                    27A                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      80

                                                                                    4
                                                                                    82
                                                                                                                                                          C
                                                                                                                                                          Â
                                                                                                                                                          H                                      LIRR                  4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           36

                  4
                  12                     4
                                         96                                                                                  Great Cove
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Patchogue Bay
                                                              Babylon Cove                                                                                      Nicoll Bay


                                                                                                         C
                                                                                                         Â
                                                                                                         RM


                                                                                                                                                Great                                                                      Town of Islip
                                                                                                                                              South Bay


                                                         C
                                                         Â
                                                         O


                                                                                                         Fire Island
                                                                                                            Inlet                                                                       Atlantic
                                                                                                                                                                                        Ocean




                                                                                                                                          o
COPYRIGHT 2024, COUNTY OF SUFFOLK, N.Y.
Real Property Taxmap parcel linework used with permission of Suffolk County Real Property
Tax Service Agency (R.P.T.S.A.). This rendering is a DRAFT MAP in that 1) the data displayed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AERIAL 2023
is an interagency or intra agency work* produced for the purpose of identifying and correcting
data. It is not a final agency determination. It is not statistical or factual compilation of data. In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Application: Town of Islip
some cases correct data has been left out and questionable or inaccurate data has been
exaggerated to help identify errors. In short, this is a DRAFT MAP produced in an effort to aid
                                                                                                                   1 inch = 2.2 miles                                                                                                                                Proposed Moratorium
in the correction of data and is not held out as being complete or accurate in any way.
                                                                                                                                                 Miles                                                                                                                 SCPD No.: IS-24-xx
*excerpted from (F.O.I.L.) the provisions of the Freedom of Information Law [Public Officers
Law Article 6 Section 84-90] by section 87.2.g
                                                                       CD-24-02...2/29/2024                        0               2            4                            © 2023 Aerial Photography New York State Office of Information Technology Services             Date: 2/29/2024


Suffolk County Planning Commission

Donald Eyersolt
CHAIRMAN
At Large

Robert Martin
VICE CHAIRMAN
Smithtown Town

Louis Dietz
SECRETARY
Babylon Town

Lydia A. Tortora
Southold Town

vacant
East Hampton Town

George J. Dickerson
Shelter Island Town

Richard London
Village under 5,000
population
Michael J. Macco, Esq.

Huntington Town

; Laure C. Nolan, Esq.
Village over 5,000
population °

Richard M. O’Dea
Riverhead Town

Edward J. Rosavitch, PB
Brookhaven Town

Frank A. Tantone, Esq
Islip Town

vacant
Southampton Town

Mardooni Vahradian
At Large

. Linda B.Petersen
At Large

Advisory News

Volume 2
Issue 1

Spring - 1998

MORATORIUM ON DEVELOPMENT

moratorium on development is
HX local law or .ordinance that

uspends the right of property
owners to obtain development
approvals while the community takes
time to consider, draft and adopt land use
plans or rules to respond to new or
changing circumstances not adequately
dealt with by its current laws.

Development moratoria may be general
or specific. A general moratorium
imposes a ban on all development in the
community. Hardship exemptions may be
provided and certain actions may be
exempted.

A specific moratorium may prevent
development approvals in a particular
geographic area or of a certain type. Mor-
atoria have suspended the right to process
proposals relating to a specific land use.
For example, they have been enacted to
affect only the construction of docks, for
instance, or communications antennas.

PURPOSE —

A moratorium on development
preserves the status quo for a

reasonable time while the municipality develops and adopts
a land use strategy to respond to new or recently perceived
problems. The moratorium prevents developers and property
owners from rushing to develop their land under current land
use rules that the community is in the process of changing. By
so doing, it helps to accomplish the purpose of the new rules by

giving them the broadest possible applicability and preventing

development that is inconsistent with them.

AUTHORITY |

There is no specific statutory authorization to adopt a
moratorium on development. The courts have pointed to two
separate sources of authority, while consistently confirming the
municipal power to enact moratoria.

Communities are implicitly authorized to take those actions
they deem reasonable to encourage the most appropriate use of
the land throughout the municipality. In light of new or
changing circumstances, a moratorium may be necessary to
allow the community to achieve this express purpose of zoning
and land use planning.

Some courts have held that a development moratorium is a
form of zoning, implying that it is part of the statutorily
delegated power to adopt and amend zoning provisions.
Alternatively, a community's authority to adopt a moratorium
has been referred to as a “police power” measure appropriate
to prevent conditions that threaten the community's health,
safety, welfare and morals.

IMPLEMENTATION

A moratorium is, from one perspective, the most extreme
land use action that a municipality can take because it
suspends completely the rights of owners to use their
property. Seen in this light, it is advisable to precede the
adoption of a moratorium by findings that confirm the
necessity of this action. What are the conditions that mandate
the imposition of amoratorium? Are no other alternatives, less
burdensome on property rights, available? Why are the existing
land use plans and ordinances not adequate? What recent
cireumstances have occurred that justify the adoption of the
moratorium? How serious and urgent are these circumstances?
What hard evidence is there to document the necessity of the
moratorium?



When adopting a moratorium, the municipality may set forth
how the situation that gave rise to the moratorium is to be
dealt with. What local bodies are responsible? What studies
are to be done? What resources are being made available to
complete those studies? Can deadlines be established for
various steps in the process? The more specific and
legitimate this plan and timetable are, the more likely the
moratorium will be found to be reasonable.

Based on this action plan and timetable, a date can be
selected for the expiration of the moratorium. A moratorium
can be extended if the timetable cannot be mét; however, the
reasonableness of the action is enhanced by setting a date for
expiration that is legitimate under the circumstances.

A moratorium should be adopted in conformance with all
procedures required of any zoning or land use action,
including notice, hearing, the formalities of adoption and
filing. While amoratorium does notrequire an énvironmental
review under the State Environmental Quality Review Act,
if it affects adjacent municipalities or county facilities, it may
be subject to review by those governments before it can be
formally adopted. The Suffolk County Planning
Commission considers suspension of any portion of a
’ Zoniug Code to be a “municipal zoning action” requiring
review by the Commission. ‘

LIMITATIONS AND CONCERNS

Since development moratoria affect property rights so
severely, they must be reasonable or run the risk of being
challenged, voided by the courts and, perhaps, resulting
jn a damage award against the locality. Reasonableness is
best established if the community can document that it is
facing a true emergency. Several court decisions sustaining
moratoria refer to the "dire necessity" that justifies them.
Such a necessity arises not only when health and safety risks
are confronted, but also when the community is facing a
significant new land use problem that its existing regulations
were not designed to handle.

For the same reason, when specific action plans and

timetables are established to deal with the necessity or
emergency, the reasonableness of the locality's moratorium

SOURCE:

is demonstrated. Similarly, a community needs to make
reasonable progress in carrying out the plan and adhering to
the schedule so its actions are seen to be reasonable.
Moratoria that have been extended for up to three years have
been’ sustained by a showing that the community was
diligently pursuing its plan and timetable and shorter
moratoria have been voided because the community was
making little or no progress. In the same way, the plan must
be calculated to deal directly with the necessity or emergency
at hand; otherwise, its reasonableness may be questioned.

Moratoria do not apply to approved projects where the
developer has completed construction or has completed
substantial construction in reliance on a development
approval or permit. Such developers are said to have vested
rights in their permits and to be immune from changes in
applicable regulations. Other property owners, who have
made less progress, are said to have no legitimate or
enforceable expectation that the rules applicable to the
development of their land might not change in the interest of
protecting the public health, safety or welfare.

CITATIONS:

1. In Duke v. Town of Huntington, 153 Misc. 2d 521, 581
N.Y.S.2d 978 (Sup.Ct,Suffolk Co., 1991), the property
owner challenged a moratorium prohibiting construction of
any docks, The court held the moratorium unreasonable
under the circumstances.

2. In B & L Development Corp. v. Town of Greenfield, 146
Misc. 2d 638, 551 N.Y.S.2d 734 (1990), the court struck
down a one year moratorium on all building permits and land
use approvals including subdivision and site plans, The
court found that in adopting the moratorium, the Town
had failed to notify the county government under General
Municipal Law § 239-m and adjacent communities under
Town Law § 264 and to follow its own requirements for
adopting zoning provisions.

3. In Cellular Telephone Co. v. Tarrytown, 209 A.D.2d 57,
624 N.Y.S.2d 170, (2nd Dep't, 1995) the court struck down
a moratorium prohibiting the construction of cellular
antenna.

Local Leader's Guide to Land Use Practice, Second Edition (In Progress), Series IIT: Innovative Tools and Techniques,
Issue 1: Moratorium on Development, http://www.law.pace.edu/landuse/morato~1.htm], downloaded 4/23/98.

