NEW YORK STATE OFFICE OF
RENEWABLE ENERGY SITING


Application of ConnectGen Chautauqua                      Case No. 21-00750
County LLC for a Major Renewable Energy
Facility Permit Pursuant to §94-C of the
New York Executive Law




                             TOWN OF RIPLEY
               STATEMENT OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL LAW




                                   Exhibit 2

             Town of Ripley Local Law 3 of 2022 (BESS Zoning Law)




1
                                          Town of Ripley
                                  RESOLUTION 86-2022
                            TO ADOPT LOCAL LAW NO. 3 OF 2022
                             BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE LAW

  WHEREAS, a resolution was duly adopted by the Town Board of the Town of Ripley for a public
  hearing to be held by said Board on June 9, 2022, at 7:00 PM at the Ripley Town Hall to hear all
  interested parties on a proposed Battety Energy Storage System ("BESS") Local Law, pursuant to
  Article IX of the New York State Constitution, and

  WHEREAS, notice of said public hearing was duly published in the Jamestown Post-Journal and
  posted in the Town Clerk's office, and

 WHEREAS, said public hearing was duly held on June 9, 2022, at the said time and place, and
 all patties in attendance were permitted an opportunity to speak on behalf of or in opposition to
 said proposed Local Law, or any part thereof, and

 WHEREAS, the Board previously issued a Negative Declaration for purposes of the State
 Environmental Quality Review Act and no further review is required, and

 WHEREAS, the Town Board, after due deliberation, finds it in the best interests of the Town to
 adopt said Local Law,

 NOW, THEREFORE, the Town Board of the Town of Ripley hereby adopts said Local Law as
 Local Law No. 3 of 2022, a copy of which is attached hereto and made a pat1 hereof, and the Town
 Clerk hereby is directed to enter said Local Law in the minutes of this meeting and in the Local
 Law Book of the Town of Ripley and to give due notice of the adoption of the Local Law to the
 Secretmy of State.

 Motioned By: Supervisor Bowen
 Seconded By: Councilman Rowe

 Roll Call Vote:        Supervisor Bowen: Aye
                        Councilman Rowe: Aye
                        Councilman Chimera: Aye
                        Councilman Herny: Aye

 Carried unanimously.


          This is to ce11ify that the Town Board of the Town of Ripley adc,ipted Resolution 86-2022
 at its regular Town Board Meeting of June 9, 2022.                    .· ·, ·, ·
                                                                             I'

~a"'foweC. va o ~                                                     .,                  , .. , 'I
 Town Clerk                                                         · ( S,
                                                                    \ ', '        '
                                                                                      r: AI L )
                                                                                      I    I   :   \   1   •   /
Section 638 Battery Energy Storage Systems

A. Authority

This Battery Energy Storage System Law is adopted pursuant to Article IX of the New York
State Constitution, §2(c)(6) and (10), New York Statute of Local Governments, § 10 (1) and (7);
sections 261-263 of the Town Law and section 10 of the Municipal Home Rule Law of the State
of New York, which authorize the Town of Ripley to adopt zoning provisions that advance and
protect the health, safety and welfare of the community.

B. Statement of Purpose

This Battery Energy Storage System Law is adopted to advance and protect the public health,
safety, welfare, and quality of life of the Town of Ripley by creating regulations for the
installation and use of Battery Energy Storage Systems, with the following objectives:

       1.      To provide a regulatory scheme for the designation of properties suitable for the
       location, construction and operation of battery energy storage systems;

       2.    To ensure compatible land uses in the vicinity of the areas affected by Battery
       Energy Storage Systems;

       3.     To mitigate the impacts of Battery Energy Storage Systems on environmental
       resources such as important agricultural lands, forests, wildlife and other protected
       resources;


       4.     To prevent risks to the public, local residents, neighboring properties and first
       responder health and safety posed by Battery Energy Storage Systems; and

       5.      To create synergy between Battery Energy Storage System development while
       protecting the historic and rural character of the Town, maintaining the rural style of life,
       retaining active farm production, developing business, and making Ripley and affordable
       place to live.

C. Definitions

       As used in this Section, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:

       ANSI: American National Standards Institute

       BATTERY(IES): A single cell or a group of cells connected together electrically in
       series, in parallel, or a combination of both, which can charge, discharge, and store
       energy electrochemically. For the purposes of this law, batteries utilized in consumer
       products are excluded from these requirements.



                                                 1
FLOW BATTERY. A storage battery that stores and generates an electrical current by
ion exchange through a membrane separating liquid electrolytes.
LEAD ACID BATTERY. A storage battery that is comprised of lead electrodes
immersed in sulfuric acid electrolyte, including vented (flooded) or valve regulated lead
acid (VRLA) batteries.
LITHIUM-ION (Li-ion) BATTERY. A storage battery in which an electrical current is
generated by lithium ions embedded in a carbon graphite or nickel metal-oxide substrate
placed in a high-viscosity carbonate mixture or gelled polymer electrolyte.
NICKEL CADMIUM (Ni-Cd) BATTERY. An alkaline storage battery in which the
positive active material is nickel oxide, the negative active material contains cadmium,
and the electrolyte is potassium hydroxide.
NICKEL METAL HYDRIDE (NiMH) BATTERY. An alkaline storage battery in
which the positive active material is nickel oxide, the negative active material is a
hydrogen absorbing alloy, and the electrolyte is potassium hydroxide.

BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: An electronic system
that protects energy storage systems from operating outside their safe operating
parameters and disconnects electrical power to the energy storage system or places it in a
safe condition if potentially hazardous temperatures or other conditions are detected.

BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM: One or more batteries or other devices,
assembled together, capable of storing energy in order to supply electrical energy at a
future time, not to include a stand-alone 12-volt car battery or an electric motor vehicle.
A Battery Energy Storage System is classified as a Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 3 Battery
Energy Storage System as follows:

TIER 1 BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM: Battery Energy Storage Systems
within or outside the structure with an aggregate energy capacity less than or equal to:

       a.      70 kWh for Lead Acid, Ni-Cd, and NiMH batteries; and

       b.      20 kWh for Li-ion and Flow batteries.
TIER 2 BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM: Battery Energy Storage Systems
with aggregated rated energy capacity:
       a.    Greater than 70 kWh and less than 500 kWh for Lead Acid, Ni-Cd, and
             NiMH batteries;
       b.    Greater than 20 kWh and less than 250 kWh for Li-Ion batteries, and
       c.    Greater than 20 kWh and less than 500 kwH for Flow batteries.

TIER 3 ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM: Battery Energy Storage Systems that have an
aggregate energy capacity greater than 500 kWh for Lead Acid, Ni-Cd, NiMH, and

                                          2
       Flow Batteries, and greater than 250 kw for Li-ion Batteries.

       CELL: The basic electrochemical unit, characterized by an anode and a cathode, used to
       receive, store, and deliver electrical energy.


       ENERGY CODE: The New York State Energy Conservation Construction Code adopted
       pursuant to Article 11 of the Energy Law, as currently in effect and as hereafter amended
       from time to time.

       FIRE CODE: The fire code section of the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and
       Building Code adopted pursuant to Article 18 of the Executive Law, as currently in effect
       and as hereafter amended from time to time.

       NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED TESTING LABORATORY (NRTL): A U.S.
       Department of Labor designation recognizing a private sector organization to perform
       certification for certain products to ensure that they meet the requirements of both the
       construction and general industry OSHA electrical standards.

       NEC: National Electric Code.

       NFPA: National Fire Protection Association.

       UL: Underwriters Laboratory, an accredited standards developer in the US.

       UNIFORM CODE: the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code
       adopted pursuant to Article 18 of the Executive Law, as currently in effect and as
       hereafter amended from time to time.

D. Applicability

       1.     The requirements of this Local Law shall apply to all Battery Energy Storage
       Systems permitted, installed, or modified in the Town of Ripley after the effective date of
       this Local Law, excluding general maintenance and repair at the discretion of the Code
       Enforcement Officer.

       2.      Battery Energy Storage Systems constructed or installed prior to the effective date
       of this Local Law shall not be required to meet the requirements of this Local Law.

       3.     Modifications to, retrofits or replacements of an existing Battery Energy Storage
       System that increase the total Battery Energy Storage System designed discharge
       duration or power rating shall be subject to this Local Law.

E. General Requirements




                                                3
       1.     A building permit shall be required for installation of all Battery Energy Storage
       Systems, and shall not be issued unless all requirements of this law are satisfied, as well
       as any other provisions of the Ripley Town Code.


       2.     All buildings or structures that (1) contain or are otherwise associated with a
       Battery Energy Storage System and (2) subject to the Uniform Code and/or the Energy
       Code shall be designed, erected, and installed in accordance with all applicable
       provisions of the Uniform Code, all applicable provisions of the Energy Code, and all
       applicable provisions of the codes, regulations, and industry standards as referenced in
       the Uniform Code, the Energy Code, and the Town of Ripley Code.

       3.      The substantive provisions of this law are intended to apply to any Battery Energy
       Storage System subject to review pursuant to Article 10 of the Public Service Law or
       Article 94-c of the Executive Law, or any other state or federal level permitting or
       approval process implemented by the State of New York or the Federal Government of
       the United States of America.

F. Permitting Requirements for Tier 1 Battery Energy Storage Systems

       Tier 1 Battery Energy Storage Systems shall be permitted in all zoning districts, subject
       to the Uniform Code and the requirements of this law and the Ripley Town Code and
       Zoning Law, and exempt from site plan review. Prior to the issuance of the building
       permit, a copy of an approved Emergency Operations Plan approved by the Ripley Fire
       District and Hose Companies shall be filed by the Ripley Fire District. A permanent copy
       shall also be placed in an approved location to be accessible to fire code officials, and
       emergency responders in the case of an emergency. The emergency operations plan shall
       include the following information:

       1.     Procedures for safe shutdown, de-energizing, or isolation of equipment and
       systems under emergency conditions to reduce the risk of fire, electric shock, and
       personal injuries, and for safe start-up following cessation of emergency conditions.

       2.     Procedures for inspection and testing of associated alarms, interlocks, and
       controls, if any.

       3.     Procedures to be followed in response to notifications from the Battery Energy
       Storage Management System, when provided, that could signify potentially dangerous
       conditions, including shutting down equipment, summoning service and repair personnel,
       and providing agreed upon notification to fire department personnel for potentially
       hazardous conditions in the event of a system failure.

       4.     Emergency procedures to be followed in case of fire, explosion, release of liquids
       or vapors, damage to critical moving parts, or other potentially dangerous conditions.
       Procedures can include sounding the alarm, notifying the fire department, evacuating



                                                 4
       personnel, local residents, community members of Ripley and neighboring Towns,
       Villages and States, de-energizing equipment, and controlling and extinguishing the fire.

       5.     Response considerations similar to a safety data sheet (SDS) that will address
       response safety concerns and extinguishment when an SDS is not required.

       6.       Procedures for dealing with Battery Energy Storage System equipment damaged
       in a fire or other emergency event, including maintaining contact information for
       personnel qualified to safely remove damaged Battery Energy Storage System equipment
       from the facility.

       7.     Other procedures as determined necessary by the Town of Ripley, in consultation
       with the Ripley Fire District to provide for the safety of occupants, neighboring
       properties, residents and emergency responders.

G. Tier 2 and Tier 3 Battery Energy Storage Systems

       Tier 2 and Tier 3 Battery Energy Storage Systems are prohibited and shall not be
       constructed or maintained within the Town of Ripley.

H. Safety

       1.    System Certification required prior to start of operation. Battery Energy Storage
       Systems and equipment shall be listed by a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory to
       UL 9540 (Standard for Battery Energy Storage Systems and Equipment) with
       subcomponents meeting each of the following standards as applicable:

              a.     UL 1973 (Standard for Batteries for Use in Stationary, Vehicle Auxiliary
              Power, and Light Electric Rail Applications),

              b.      UL 1642 (Standard for Lithium Batteries),

              c.      UL 1741 or UL 62109 (Inverters and Power Converters),

              d.     Certified under the applicable electrical, building, and fire prevention
              codes as required.


       2.      Battery Energy Storage Systems, components, and associated ancillary equipment
       shall have required working space clearances, and electrical circuitry shall be within
       weatherproof enclosures marked with the environmental rating suitable for the type of
       exposure in compliance with NFPA 70 and all other applicable standards deemed
       necessary by the Town of Ripley or Ripley Fire District.




                                                5
I. Enforcement:

        Any violation of this Battery Energy Storage System Law shall be subject to the same
enforcement requirements, including the civil and criminal penalties, provided for in the zoning
or land use regulations of Town of Ripley.

J. Severability

        The invalidity or unenforceability of any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause,
provision, or phrase of the aforementioned sections, as declared by the valid judgment of any
court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional, shall not affect the validity or
enforceability of any other section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, provision, or phrase,
which shall remain in full force and effect.




                                                 6
