                                                                                                            New York State Department of State
                                                                         Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Gommercial Code
                                                                                                  One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
          Local Law Filing                                                                                             Albany, NY 12231-0001
                                                                                                                              www,dos.ny.gov


                                    (Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)

               Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
               italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

                flcounty nGity frTown lVillage
               (Select one:)

               of                                           YoRK



               Local Law No.                         5                           ofthe year2019
              A local law                Establishi    a      rar Land Use Moratorium
                               (lnsett
                                          prohibiti ng Large Scale Batterv Enerqy Storaqe
                                          System Installations within the Town of york



              Be it enacted by the                                           YORK TOWN BOARD                                       of the
                                            (Name of Legislative Body)



               lcounty XGity fiTown lVillage
               (Select one)

              of                                                           YORK                                             as follows:



                                                   "See attached documentation"




                   (lf additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)


DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 04/14)                                                                                                                   Page 2 of4
c




      TOWN OF YORK LOCAL LAW NO. .f                                        of 2019

           A LOCAL LAW ESTABLISITING A TEMPORARY LAND USE

    MORATORIUM PROIIIBITING LARGE SCALE BATTERY ENERGY

                    STORAGE SYSTEM INSTALLATIONS WITHIN

                                       THE TOWN OF YORI(

      Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of York as follows:



      SECTION 1. TITLE
              This Local Law shall be known as the "Moratoriluu on and Prohibitionbf Large Scale
      Battery Energy Storage System Instatlaitions within the town of York."
                                          .;,

      SECTION 2. STATUTORY AUTHORI|Y; PURSOSE AND INTENT.

                    This Local Law is intended to b.9 conlistent wirh and is adopted pursuant to the
     authority granted to the Town Board of the Tdwn of York underthe New York State
     Constitution, and the Lasjs of th State of New York, iscluding but not limited to the fotlowing
     arrhorities: New York State Gor$itution Article[(; Scction2 (c)(ii)(6), (10); Municipal Home
     Rule Law $ lfttXil; Mrnicipd Homd Rule Law g'i0(lxiixax6), (il), (12), and (lali
     Municipal Hone Rule Law $ l0(U{iiXdX3); ivlunicipal Home Rule Law $ l0(2); Municipat
     Home Ruln Law $ l0(3); Munieipal Hgne Rule Lriw g 10(4)(a), and (b); Statute sf Looat-
     Governmdts $10(l), (6), and (7); Town Law $ 64 (17-a); Town Law g 130(3) and (15); Town
     Law $135; totttrLaw Article 16 (Zoning & Planning) inclusive; Environmental Conservation
     Law $3-0301(lxb),3-0301(2Xn) and 8-01 13 and 6 NYCRR P Nt 617,also known as the State
     Environmental Qdatity Review^Agt, as it pertains to applications that are neither excluded nor
     exempt from this local  larr.   ',t"

              This Local Law is a land use regulation. This Local Law is intended and is hereby
     declared to address matters of local conoern, and it is declared ttrat it is not the intention of the
     Town to address matters of statewide concern., This Local Law is intended to act as and is
                                                 o'incidental
     hereby declared to exercise the permissive               contol" of a zoning law and land use law
     that is concemed with the broad area of land use planning and the physical use of land and
     property within the Town, including the physical externalities associated with certain land uses,
     such as potential negative impacts of such uses on a community.

             This Local Law shall supersede and suspend those provisions of the Zoning Ordinance of
      the Town of York and New York state law which require the Planning Board and/or the Town
Code Enforcement officer to accept, process, and approve land use applications within certain
statutory time periods.

        This Local Law is intended to temporarily prohibit the creation or siting of large scale
battery energy storage system installations (as herein later defined) within the Town of York for
a perioO of rif to twelve (12) months, pending the development and adoption of local laws and/or
ordinances designed to regulate and govern such installations.

        The Town Board recognizes and acknowledges that the Town needs to study and analyze
many considerations that affect the preparation of local legislation to regulate the future creation
anA siting of large scale battery energy storage system installations. The Town Board has
formally-requert.a tft Building and Zoning Department and the Planning Board of the Town of
York toidenti$ and review local laws from other jurisdictions, andrelated information and
source materia[s, in order to assist in developing the parameters of a local law to regulate large
scale battery energy storage system installations. 'Ihe Town Board has directed the Town
Attomey to assist in this endeavor.

        The Town Board also recognizes the need to rgview and examine ig existing ordinances,
local laws and Zoniug Code provisions insofar as thry mEy be affested by adoption of such local
law(s) regUlating the creation and/or siting of large scalo_b. attey cnergy storage system
instaliations. ttis deemed necessary to eiibcl this moratofiur4in order to permit the Town
adeqpate time in which to draft suitabte legislatidn fo,r this ptrr.pqf. During the term of the
moratorium the Town of York shall workto preparc andeventually adopt new land use
regulations to incorpom{e inlo t\fown's existing z@g or-dinanc.e.

       At this time, thdie are no pdoAiog applications for the-location, development or site plan
approval of a large scate b,{tt€ry q1. *1aee $V1om installation'
                                        J
        qqlitg theperdensy;f tlg mootbriuqth. Town Board will consider how best to
perrrit #fr ii'staffitions goas to hanmoniously inte. grate sucl installations with the existing
igdculhrr.at cornmunity aid lmdscapd and to mitigate potentiat uudesirable environnrental and
olrer impaox thut *oy be assooi{*sd with.guch use. At present" the Zoning ffiinmce of the
Town sfYo.h mry not adequat'ety regulde such land use. If the oommrnity allows stloh
development duriiig that time, the goals of the Town could be underndrcd or damaged'
Moratoria arc usefil in confiolling or tenrporarily inhibiting development until satisfactory final
regulations are adoPted'

       For these reasons, the Town Board finds that temporary moratorium legislation is both
advisable and necessary for a reasonable and defined period of time in order to develop and
adopt necessary zoning and land use changes to the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of York, thus
protecting and firthering the public interest, health and safety'

SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS.

        For purposes of this Local Law, the following terms shall have the meanings respectively
set forth below:
L




           Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System Installation(s) - Any installation of a
    rechargeable energy storage system having an aggfegate energy capacity of 600kWh.or more,
    consisting of elechochemical storage batteries or similar technology, battery chargers, controls,
    powcr conditioning systems, inverters, transformers, switchgears and associated electrical
    equipment designed to store electrical power received from a generating or tansmission source
    and periodically discharging power from the battery energy storage system into the power grid.
    Systems typically used to provide standby or emergLncy power and/or an unintemrptable power
    supply, load shedding, load sharing, or similm capabilities relating to the energy consumed by a
    residence, farm operation or other business on site and having an aggregate energy capacity of
    less than 600kwh shall not be considered a "Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System
    Installation" for purposes of this Moratorium


    SECTION     4. TEMPORARY MORATORIUM and PROHIBITION.
           A.        Unless permitted pursuant to Section 5 hereafter, from and after the date of this
                     Local Law, no application for a permit, zoning permit, special permit, zoning
                     variance, building peqfi, operating pernit site planapprcval, subdivision
                     appmval, certificate {occryancy, certificate of compliance, t€mporary
                     ccrtifcate, or other Town-level approval of any nature shsll be acoepted"
                     processed" considered, enlggained, apploved, approved conditionally, or issued
                     by my boar4 employee, ol,fcial or dpiant of the Town of York, for the
                     constuction, establishment, or use or operation of any land, body of water,
                     building or other s&{rctue locaffd within the Town ofYork, for any Large Scale
                     Bathry Energy $tor4ge Systom'Installation, as delined above.

           B.      Unl€$q p€mified pursuant to Section 5 hereafter, from and after the date of this
                   todril law, no persgn, entity or businesb shall use, cause, or permit to be used,
                   any lan4\dy of water, building or other structure located within the Town of
                 _ York for any Large Scale Battery Energy Storage System lnstallation, as defined
                  'above.
                 '
           c,        T#j'iryhibitions t4t forth above in Clarxes A" and B. of this Section 4. are not
                     interrded, and slqllnot be constued, !o prcvent orprohibitthe use and
                     developrirent ofi.bettery energy storage systems that me typically used to provide
                     standby or emcfgency power and/or an rmintemrptable power supply, toad
                     shedding, load sharing, or similar capabilities and that are for personal or
                     individual use on or about any residence or place ofbusiness, or any farm
                     operation" so long as such use does not have an aggr€gate energy capacity of
                     600kwh.

           D.        This moratorium and prohibition shall be in effect beginning on the effective date
                     of this Local Law and shall expire on the earlier of (i) that date which is twelve
                     (12) months after said effective date; or (ii) the effective date of a Town Board
                     resolution affirmatively stating the Town Board has determined that the need for
               this moratorium and prohibition no longer exists.

       E.      This moratorium and prohibition shall apply to all real property within the Town
               of York, and all land use applications for the siting or creation of Large Scale
               Battery Energy Storage System lnstallation within the Town of York.

       F      Under no circumstances shall the failure of the Town Board of the Town of
              Yotk, the ZoningBoard of Appeals of the Town of York, the Planning
              Board of the Town of York, or the Code Enforcement Offrcer for the Town of
              York, to take any action upon any application for a permit, zoning permit,
              special permit, zoning vadance, building permit, operhting permit, site plan
              approval, subdivision approval, certificate of occupancy, certificate of
              compliance, temporary certifioate, of anl other Town-level approval related to a
              Large Scale Battery Energy Storage $ystem Installdtion constitute an
              approval by default or an approval by virtue of expintion of time to respond to
               such application.

SECTION 5. HARDSHIP VARIANCE REtiEF FROM APPI.,ICABILITY OF
MORATORIIIM                                              ::




        Applications for land use otherwiss qubject to this morgtorium may be exempted from the
provisions of this Local Law following a qoticed public hearinf before the Town Board. It is
specifically intended that ttris moratorium shall zupeme{e NewYork State law whioh would
otherwise confer odusiv,e-varimce authority to the zoptirg bOard of appeals.

        Following a #ii*   *qu.*t hr hardship vdriance relie{ within sixty (60} days of receipt
of such requ€s! a noticd{ putlic hearing shall be,held, * which heuing the Town Board may,
but is not limited.F consider:
                                             .




       &       The proxipiqy ofappli.cant's prcmisas or the subject of applicant's request for
               retief to nafigal rcsoiiies, including but not limited to prime agricultrral soils,
               wetland areas, oonservation disEicts and other areas of environmental concem.

       B.      Thc impact of the proposed application on the applicant's premises and upon the
               sunortgding uea,
                        ,i..; ::   : ;ii :
       C.      CompatibilitV of the proposed application with the existing land use and character
               of the area in general proximity to the subject of the application, and its effect
               upon lresthetic resources of the community.

       D.      Compatibility of the proposed application with the recommendations of any
               adminisrative body charged with such review by the Town of York.

       E.      The written opinion of the Town of York Planning Board and the Town of York
               Code Enforcement Officer that such application may be jeopardized or made
               impractical by waiting until the moratorium is expired.
t




            F      Evidence specifying in detail describing the nature and level ofany alteged
                   hmdship imposed on the property owner(s) as a result of this moratorium.

            F.     such other considerations and issues as may be raised by the Town Board.



            In making a determination concerning a proposed exemption or grant of relief from
    application of the rnoratorium, the Town Board may obtain and consider repofts and information
    from any source it deems to be helpful with review of said application. A grant of relief from
    application of the moratorium shall include a determination of unreasonable hardship upon the
    property owner (or if there are multiple property owners, a determination that each such owner
    shall suffer an uffeasonable hardship) which is unique to the property owner(s), a finding that
    there are sufficient existing regulations to adequately govem the application for which a hardship
    waiver is being requested, and a finding that the grant of an exemption will be in harmony with,
    and will be consistent with the existing Town of Yoik Zoning ordinance and the
    recommendations of the Comprehensive Plan,
                                                      '.
            An application for relief from the prohibitions of the moratorium shall be accompanied
    by a fee of $500, togetbcr with the applicaot's writton underhking, in aform to bc approved by
    the Attoruey for the Townn to pay all of the er(penses ofthe fownBoard and any'llgint or
    consultant retaingd by the Towu Board tci evaluqte and consj&r the merits of such application,
    including but not limiteC to ary fees incuned by the Town ioiservices provided Uy ifre Attorney
    for the Town.


    SECTION 6. PENALJIES.

           A.      Failureto conply unth,any of ths provisions of this LocalLaw shall be an
                   unslsssifled misdegieatror a$ contemplated by Article l0 and section 80.05 of the
                   New Yo* $tate Penal Laq and, uqpn convictionthereo{, shall be punishable by
                   a fine of not more than One Thousdnd Five Huudred Dollus ($1,500) or
                   imprisonment for not more tfran l0 days, or both for the nrst otrens€. Any
                   submquent offanse within a three-month period rhatl be punishable by a fine of
                   not more thari TwoThousand Five Hundred Dollars (S2,500) or irnprisonment for
                   aperig,{ of not mete than 30 days, or both. For purposes of this Clause A., each
                   day that a vjolatibn'of this Local Law exists shall constitute a separate and distinct
                                   ii
                   offense.
           B.      Compliance with this Local Law may also be compelled and violations restrained
                   by order or by i4iunction of a court of competent jurisdiction, in an action brought
                   on behalf of the Townby the Town Board.

           C       In the event the Town is required to take legal action to enforce this Local Law,
                   the violator will be responsible for any and all costs incuned by the Town relative
                   thereto, including attorney's fees, and such amount shall be determined and
                   assessed by the court. If such expense is not paid in full within 30 days from the
               date it is determined and assessed by the Court, such expense shall be charged to
               the propert(ies) within the Town on which the violation occuned, by including
               such expense in the next annual Town tax levy against such property, and such
               expense shall be a lien upon such property until paid'


SECTION 7. CONFLICTS.

       For and during the stated term ofthis legislation, unless the stated term thereofshall be
modified or abridged by the Town Board, this moratorium shall take precedence over and shall
contol over any contradictory local law, ordinance, regulation or Zoning Otdinance provision.


SECTION 8. SEVERABILITY.




SECTION 9. '. EITFECTIVE DATE. n

        ihe effective date of this Local Law shall be immediately upon its filing with the
Secretary ofState.
