                                          COUNTY OF SUFFOLK                                       Z-4




                                              EDWARD P. ROMAINE
                                              SUFFOLK COUNTY EXECUTIVE

                                 Department of Economic Development and Planning
                                       Division of Planning and Environment

             Sarah Lansdale                                                   Joseph E. Sanzano
             Commissioner                                                          Director


                                                STAFF REPORT
  SECTIONS A14-14 THRU A14-25 OF THE SUFFOLK COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE CODE

 Applicant:    Town of Islip
 Municipality: Town of Islip
 Location:     Town-Wide

 Received:              8/2/2024
 File Number:           IS-24-04

 Jurisdiction:          Moratorium – Amendment to the Zoning Law - Islip

OVERVIEW

The Town of Islip is requesting a six (6) month extension to its moratorium on the issuance
of permits and/or approvals for Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) facilities.

The proposed moratorium text extension is provided below, verbatim from the Town:

                                     Article XLII Alternative Energy Systems

§ 68-457 Moratorium for the Development of Battery Energy Storage Systems.

    A. Authority.

         This moratorium is adopted pursuant to Article IX of the New York State Constitution,
         §2(c)(6) and (10), New York Statute of Local Governments, § 10, Subdivisions 1 and 7,
         §§ 261 through 263 of the Town Law, and § 10 of the Municipal Home Rule Law of the
         State of New York. In particular, this chapter shall supersede those provisions of the Town
         Code and New York State Law which require the Town Board, Planning Board, and/or
         Zoning Board of Appeals to accept, process, and/or approve applications for the
         development of Battery Energy Storage Systems within specified statutory time periods.

    B. Legislative intent.




Suffolk County Planning Commission                           Page 1 of 9                          August 7, 2024
         This ordinance is adopted to impose a six-month moratorium on the issuance of permits
         and/or approvals for Battery Energy Storage Systems. The Town of Islip recognizes that
         Battery Energy Storage Systems (“BESS”) are a key component to the viability and
         promotion of renewable energy sources. However, since the technology of these systems
         is still in its infancy, there is a significant amount of recent public concern about the
         potentially volatile nature of lithium-ion batteries, which stems from fires at three different
         BESS facilities in the State of New York from May through July of 2023. In response to
         the recent BESS fires, New York State Governor Kathy Hochul found it necessary to form
         an Inter-Agency Fire Safety Working Group tasked with ensuring the safety of BESS
         across New York. There have been no notable findings or recommendations published by
         this group as of the adoption of this ordinance. On July 20, 2024, the New York State Inter-
         Agency Fire Safety Working Group (“Working Group”) issued their Fire Code
         Recommendations to the New York State Fire Prevention and Building Code Council for
         future code installments. Shortly thereafter on July 25, 2024, the New York State Fire
         Prevention and Building Code Council (“Code Council”) issued their Final Draft Proposed
         Changes to the 2020 Fire Code of New York State. At this point, it is unclear whether the
         Code Council will consider or adopt the recommendations set forth by the Working Group.

         Since the enactment of the moratorium, the Town has worked tirelessly to adequately
         research and analyze the safety issues related to Battery Energy Storage Systems
         (“BESS”) and identify potential solutions. The Town has consulted an expert in the field to
         assist in drafting Code amendments intended to address and mitigate the identified safety
         concerns. Given that the expiration date of the Town of Islip’s BESS moratorium is quickly
         approaching and the very recent publication of the respective State recommendations and
         changes, the Town Board finds it necessary to extend the moratorium period for six (6)
         months.

         Therefore, The Town Board, Planning Board, and Zoning Board of Appeals need
         additional information and assurances about the safety of these types of facilities,
         including but not limited to best practices for fire suppression and emergency response,
         ensuring the technology and availability of equipment necessary for the Town’s Hazardous
         Materials Unit and local fire departments should a fire occur, precautions to take related
         to gas emissions and deterring any necessary fire suppression chemicals from impacting
         groundwater, and the adequacy of location and other standards for siting these facilities.
         Given these concerns and the current lack of relevant data and information on this issue,
         it is necessary for the Town Board to enact a six (6) month limited moratorium on the
         issuance of permits and/or approvals for BESS pursuant to Town Code § 68-456 while
         these issues are further considered and the Code is adequately revised to address any
         outstanding concerns.

         The Town requires an additional six (6) months to thoroughly vet and consider the
         recommendations and changes proposed by the Working Group, as well as the Code
         Council to aid in its preparation of amendments to the Town’s current BESS Code Section
         68-456. An extension of the moratorium is necessary to complete the legislative intent
         initially set forth by the Town Board on March 19, 2024. To allow the moratorium to expire
         at this point is premature.

    C. Definitions.

         The applicable definitions for this section shall be the same as those set forth in § 68-



Suffolk County Planning Commission                      Page 2 of 9                          August 7, 2024
         456.

    D. Moratorium.

         No new permit, land use application, or request for the development of BESS shall be
         accepted pursuant to § 68-456, nor shall any pending applications continue to be
         processed or decided by the Town Board, the Planning Board, or the Zoning Board of
         Appeals, or any other agency, department, or office of the Town of Islip during the
         Moratorium Period.

         No building permit, BESS permit, or Planning Board special permit for BESS shall be
         issued by the Town Board, the Planning Board, the Zoning Board of Appeals, or any other
         agency, department, or office of the Town of Islip during the Moratorium Period.

    E. Moratorium Period.
         The moratorium period shall be in effect for a period of six (6) months following the
         effective date of this ordinance. Following the moratorium period, this ordinance shall be
         without further force and effect unless the moratorium period is extended by a Town Board
         resolution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the moratorium period shall not exceed
         eighteen (18) months. Upon the expiration date of the initial moratorium period on October,
         7, 2024, this moratorium is hereby be extended for an additional six (6) months. The
         moratorium extension shall be in effect from the effective date of this amendment and shall
         run for a period of six (6) months. When this extension period has expired, this moratorium
         shall be without force and effect unless the moratorium is extended by a Town Board
         resolution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the moratorium period shall not exceed
         eighteen (18) months.

    F. Exclusions.
         None.

         This ordinance shall not apply to Tier 1 BESS, as defined by Section 68-456(c) of the Islip
         Town Code, that have an aggregate energy capacity less than or equal to 80 kWh.

    G. Applications that may exempted.

         1) In reliance upon the initial findings issued by the New York State Inter-Agency Fire
            Safety Working Group, which were released on December 21, 2023 and determined
            that there has been no evidence of significant off-site migration of contaminants
            associated with the three (3) recent fires at BESS facilities in Jefferson County, Orange
            County, and Suffolk County, the Town of Islip has set forth below a pathway for certain
            qualified applications to be exempted from this moratorium.

         2) Applications may be exempted from the provisions of this ordinance following a public
            hearing on due notice before the Town Planning Board and service of a written notice
            upon the local Fire Department for the proposed siting of the BESS. Upon such
            application, the Planning Board shall consider:
               a. The emergency response plan including evacuation orders to be followed in
                   the event of a fire or any other emergency at the facility and satisfactory
                   evidence that precautions are in place to suppress a fire and mitigate the extent
                   of damage to the surroundings and environment;


Suffolk County Planning Commission                    Page 3 of 9                         August 7, 2024
                   b. The size of subject parcel and the wattage of the BESS facility;
                   c. The proximity of the applicant’s proposed BESS facility to residential areas as
                      well as sensitive and high-risk populations including but not limited to hospitals,
                      nursing homes, assisted living facilities, schools;
                   d. The extent of the proposed development and/or disturbance of the applicant’s
                      premises;
                   e. The environmental significance, if any, of the applicant’s parcel and the
                      proposed development’s impact upon the environment, including existing
                      transportation resources;
                   f. Compatibility of the proposed development with the aesthetic resources of the
                      community or with the existing community or neighborhood character;
                   g. Compatibility of the proposed development with the recommendations of the
                      Master Plan, the Comprehensive Plan Update, and all adopted
                      Comprehensive Plans and plan elements henceforth; and
                   h. Whether the application meets the minimum requirements of Section 68-456.

         3) In making a determination under this subsection, the Planning Board may obtain and
            consider written reports from the Town of Islip Hazardous Materials Unit and such
            other sources as required in the judgment of the Planning Board and consistent with
            the purpose of this chapter. A grant of an exemption to an applicant’s premises shall
            include a determination of hardship and unique circumstances which do not generally
            apply throughout the Town and a finding that the grant of an exemption will be in
            harmony with, and will not be unduly disruptive to, the goals and purposes of the
            assessment undertaken pursuant to this ordinance.

         4) An application under this subsection must be accompanied by a $1,000.00 fee and 8
            copies of the application, together with the applicant’s written undertaking to pay all
            out-of-pocket costs incurred by the Town in studies and/or by retainer of resource
            personnel relating to this hearing, review and determination of such application, in form
            and substance acceptable to the Planning Board.

    H. Compliance with SEQRA.

         Pursuant to 6 NYCRR Section 617.5(c)(36), the imposition of a six-month moratorium is
         a Type II action, and therefore, no further SEQRA review is required.

    I.   Enforcement.

         Any violation of the moratorium shall be subject to the same enforcement requirements,
         including the civil and criminal penalties, provided for in the zoning or land use regulations
         of the Town of Islip.

    J. Severability.

         The invalidity or unenforceability of any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause,
         provision, or phrase of this ordinance, as declared by the valid judgment of any court of
         competent jurisdiction, shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other section,
         subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, provision, or phrase, which shall remain in full
         force and effect.




Suffolk County Planning Commission                       Page 4 of 9                          August 7, 2024
    K. Effective Date.

         This ordinance shall take effect ten (10) days after the text of the ordinance, or a summary
         or abstract thereof, is published in either the official newspaper of the Town of Islip or, if
         there is none, in a newspaper designated by the Town Board having general circulation in
         the Town pursuant to New York State Town Law §§ 133 and 264.


BACKGROUND

On March 6, 2024, the SCPC approved the initial six (6) month moratorium on BESS facilities
requested by the Town of Islip, subject to the following comments:

    1. The Town should review the now available Model Law by NYSERDA that is intended to
       help local government officials and agencies having jurisdictions to adopt legislations and
       regulations to responsibly accommodate BESS in their communities, as the available
       Model Law lays out procedural frameworks and substantive requirements for residential,
       commercial, and utility-scale BESS facilities. (https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-
       Programs/Clean-Energy-Siting-Resources/Battery-Energy-Storage-Guidebook);

    2. The Town should confirm that the temporary moratorium will only apply to BESS related
       applications and not deem a larger proposed land use application unfit for review if a
       portion of such proposal includes a BESS facility; rather that BESS portion of such a
       proposed application may not move forward but yet allow the remainder of said application
       to continue to be reviewed by the Town;

    3. The Town should consider allowing certain exclusions under their proposed moratorium
       regulations in order to meet potential and applicable legal requirements;

    4. The Town is encouraged to review and coordinate with other Long Island municipalities
       on their review of updates to local, state and national regulations that may relate to BESS
       facilities, which could help the Town better understand applicable appropriate regulations
       that would allow for the development of these facilities while adhering to the Town’s public
       safety, land use planning and other concerns;

BESS type facilities generally consist of rows of rechargeable batteries housed in self-contained,
interconnected storage units. These facilities typically operate by drawing surplus energy from the
local power grid during periods of low usage and storing it for later distribution back into the grid
during peak demand. However, they can also be used as direct storage for electricity produced
by renewable energy production facilities, like wind and solar farms. In either case, BESS stabilize
the local power grid by ensuring reliability during periods when the grid might otherwise
experience a partial or total deficit in voltage, commonly known as “brownouts” and “blackouts”.

Thus, proponents of BESS offer that these facilities can reinforce the local power grid not only on
a daily or routine basis, but also during emergencies when demand is especially high or when
electrical transmission from outside the local grid is severed.

From a land use perspective, BESS facilities are generally cited as a low-impact uses. Once a
facility is constructed and operational, it often requires no regular staffing, only routine
maintenance. This results in virtually no traffic, and almost no need for onsite parking. The
facilities can also be monitored remotely, which further reduces traffic, and onsite staffing and
parking. Site lighting at BESS facilities is also largely unnecessary, except for security purposes.



Suffolk County Planning Commission                     Page 5 of 9                          August 7, 2024
The absence of employees also means there is virtually no water consumption at BESS facilities,
and commensurately, little to no sewage. Noise (generated by cooling fans) is often the main
potentially significant planning concern associated with BESS facilities; however, noise is not
always a problem depending on the size and configuration of a project, and the industry has
implemented methods of noise mitigation (i.e., sound barriers and landscaping) in instances
where noise may be an issue.

Opponents of these facilities have raised public safety concerns over the presence of highly
flammable substances, such as from lithium-ion batteries, and possible air and groundwater
contamination. Historically, concerns about such threats were resolved by zoning certain uses out
of residential areas and restricting them to high-intensity industrial districts. However, that is not
always feasible with BESS, as these facilities must connect to the local power grid through a
substation with adequate capacity to accommodate the transmission between the facility and the
grid. The greater the distance between a BESS facility and the substation, the less efficient the
transmission will be. As a result, designing a viable BESS facility often requires in some cases
that a facility be located in or near a residential district.

The Town of Islip enacted its BESS zoning regulations in July 2022, set forth in Section 68-456
of       the       Town’s         Zoning       Code       (https://www.lilanduseandzoning.com/wp-
content/uploads/sites/128/2023/01/Islip-1.pdf). The Town of Islip operates on a three (3) tier
classification system, with Tier III being the largest (601 kWh or greater) followed by Tier II (81-
600 kWh), and then Tier I (80 kwH or smaller). Tier I BESS are permitted in all zoning districts in
the Town. Tier II BESS are permitted in the Town’s B-1, B-2, and B-3 Business District in addition
to its Industrial Districts (excluding Industrial Business [I-B]). Tier III BESS are restricted to the
Industrial 1 and Industrial 2 Districts only. In addition to imposing design standards and
decommissioning requirements similar to Brookhaven and Huntington, the Town of Islip code
includes specific provisions regarding commissioning plans, project operations, and safety during
a project’s lifetime.

The development of BESS related facilities have been proposed and developed all over the world,
including here on Long Island. In the Town of Islip, the Suffolk County Planning Commission
(SCPC) reviewed a Special Use Permit/Exception/Conditional Use application by KCE NY 29
LCC in January 2024, for a proposed BESS facility on a 6.6-acre site at 220 Rabro Drive,
Hauppauge. The SCPC voted to approve that application with the following comments:

    1. The applicant and the Town of Islip Zoning Board of Appeals and should engage the New
       York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) for technical
       assistance regarding compliance with respect to the issues to address for assuring
       responsible battery storage development at the subject development site;

    2. The Applicant should provide ample vegetative buffering around all sides of the subject
       site that would screen the proposed BESS facility from the adjacent residential and
       commercial uses;

    3. The Applicant should confirm that all lighting on the subject property be contained to
       comply with “Dark Skies” guidelines and utilize all applicable energy savings technology
       such as LED lighting, etc.;

    4. The Applicant should begin to consult with the Town of Islip and with New York State DEC
       with regards to stormwater runoff management;

    5. The Applicant should be encouraged to review the Suffolk County Planning Commission



Suffolk County Planning Commission                    Page 6 of 9                          August 7, 2024
         publication on Managing Stormwater-Natural Vegetation and Green Methodologies and
         incorporate into the proposal, where practical, design elements contained therein.
         Bioswales, rain-gardens with native plants and shrub plantings could be particularly well
         integrated into the proposal;

    6. The Town should be directed to review the Suffolk County Planning Commission
       Guidelines on public Safety and Universal design and incorporate where practical design
       elements therein;

    7. Approval of the Special Exception by the Suffolk County Planning Commission does not
       constitute acceptance/approval of any other zoning actions(s) associated therewith before
       any other local regulatory board.

On Long Island, to date, five (5) of Long Island’s thirteen (13) towns have adopted zoning
regulations for BESS facilities: the Towns of Huntington, Brookhaven, Southampton, Riverhead,
and Islip.

However, nearly half of the Towns now in Suffolk County have adopted moratoriums for BESS
facilities, as heard by the Suffolk County Planning Commission over the past year, as summarized
below

        The Town of Southampton recently extended their ongoing moratorium for a second time.
         The original six (6) month moratorium (August 2023 to February 2024) was extended twice
         for six (6) months each (to February 2025);
        The Town of Riverhead adopted a three (3) month moratorium in November 2023. This
         moratorium is no longer in effect and Riverhead adopted new code for BESS in April 2024;
        The Town of Huntington recently extended their ongoing six (6) month moratorium
         (October 2023 to April 2024) for an additional six (6) months (to October 2024); and
        The Town of Southold recently extended their ongoing twelve (12) month moratorium
         (April 11, 2023 to April 11, 2024) for an additional twelve (12) months (to April 2025);
        The Town of Islip adopted a six (6) month moratorium in April 2024 (to October 2024). The
         current referral is to extend the moratorium for an additional six (6) months (to April 2025).
         The Town has also submitted a concurrent referral to amend this moratorium to exclude
         Tier 1 BESS.

The Suffolk County Planning Commission approved all of these applications, and in the majority
of these cases, required and/or requested that the municipality return to the Commission at either
the half-way point or at the end of the moratorium to report on its progress. The Commission also
encouraged each municipality to review applicable guidelines by other Long Island municipalities
on the subject and work with them as needed, as well as to continue to monitor the Governor’s
task force and any statewide recommendations.

                                         STAFF ANALYSIS
This referral is to extend the moratorium period for an additional six (6) months, to April 2025.
There is a concurrent referral from the Town to amend the moratorium to exclude Tier 1 BESS,
thus allowing those facilities to move forward for the duration of the moratorium period. If the
amendment is adopted, Tier 2 and Tier 3 BESS facilities will continue to be covered by the
moratorium and permits for these facilities will not be issued during the moratorium period.

As noted in the past by the Suffolk County Planning Commission, a moratorium on development



Suffolk County Planning Commission                     Page 7 of 9                          August 7, 2024
is a local law or ordinance that suspends the right of property owners to obtain development
approvals while the community takes time to consider, draft or adopt land use plans or rules to
respond to new or changing circumstances not adequately dealt with by its current law. A
moratorium preserves the status quo for a reasonable time. A moratorium is, from one
perspective, the most extreme land use action that a municipality can take because it suspends
completely the rights of owners to use their property. Such development moratoria may be general
or specific. A general imposes a ban on all development within a community (allowing for certain
hardship exemptions), while a specific moratorium may prevent development approvals in a
specific geographic area or of a certain type of development.

Staff finds that this proposed moratorium is intended to be specific and should not restrict all
development on any or all parcels within the Town; rather, it is understood that the proposed
moratorium is limited to BESS facilities only, and for a total of twelve (12) months to allow the
Town to review and update their zoning code for such facilities. According to referral documents,
the Town has worked to research BESS and identify solutions to potential safety issues and has
consulted an expert in the field to assist in drafting related code amendments.

Staff also notes that the Town was waiting for the finalized recommendations to be provided by
the State from the Inter-Agency Fire Safety Working Group (https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-
Programs/Energy-Storage-Program/New-York-Inter-Agency-Fire-Safety-Working-Group),           of
which preliminary recommendations were recently released on February 6, 2024. On July 20,
2024, the Working Group issued their Fire Code Recommendations. On July 26, 2024, New York
State released proposed updates to fire safety code in relation to BESS (Notice of Rule in
Development | Department of State (ny.gov)) and will accept public comments on the new
standards through September 24, 2024.

Additionally, the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) has
now made available a BESS Guidebook that contains information, tools, and step-by-step
instructions to support local governments managing battery energy storage system development
in their communities. The Guidebook provides local officials with in-depth details about the
permitting and inspection process to ensure efficiency, transparency, and safety in their
communities. Local communities can download the full Energy Storage Guidebook or access
individual        chapters        (https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/Clean-Energy-Siting-
Resources/Battery-Energy-Storage-Guidebook). Additional guidelines may continue to become
available later on in the year.
                                   STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends Approval of proposed Local Law of the Town of Islip for a six (6) month
moratorium extension on the issuance of permits and/or approvals of Battery Energy Storage
System (BESS), subject to the following comments:

    1. The Town should review the now available Model Law by NYSERDA that is intended to
       help local government officials and agencies having jurisdictions to adopt legislations and
       regulations to responsibly accommodate BESS in their communities, as the available
       Model Law lays out procedural frameworks and substantive requirements for residential,
       commercial, and utility-scale BESS facilities. (https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-
       Programs/Clean-Energy-Siting-Resources/Battery-Energy-Storage-Guidebook)

    2. The Town should review the now available proposed changes to the New York State Fire
       Safety Code, which includes measures to promote enhanced review of BESS design and
       improved response to potential BESS fires by local fire departments.
       https://dos.ny.gov/system/files/documents/2024/07/2024-07-25_fcnys_nrd-final-draft-
       document.pdf


Suffolk County Planning Commission                  Page 8 of 9                        August 7, 2024
    3. The Town should confirm that the temporary moratorium will only apply to BESS related
       applications and not deem a larger proposed land use application unfit for review if a
       portion of such proposal includes a BESS facility; rather that BESS portion of such a
       proposed application may not move forward but yet allow the remainder of said application
       to continue to be reviewed by the Town.
    4. The Town should consider allowing certain exclusions under their proposed moratorium
       regulations in order to meet potential and applicable legal requirements.
    5. The Town is encouraged to review and coordinate with other Long Island municipalities
       on their review of updates to local, state and national regulations that may relate to BESS
       facilities, which could help the Town better understand applicable appropriate regulations
       that would allow for the development of these facilities while adhering to the Town’s public
       safety, land use planning and other concerns.

    6. The Town is encouraged to adopt the proposed amendment that would exclude Tier 1
       BESS from the moratorium, thus allowing those facilities to move forward for the duration
       of the moratorium period.




Suffolk County Planning Commission                  Page 9 of 9                         August 7, 2024
