                                                    Minutes
                                                  Town of Cairo

                                         Wednesday February 18th, 2026

                                         Town Board Meeting @ 7:00PM

                                        Location: Town Hall Meeting Room

                                                    DRAFT
        The Town Board of the Town of Cairo met for a Town Board Meeting on Wednesday February 18th,
2026, at the Town Hall, Main Street, Cairo, New York. The meeting was called to order @ 6:58PM and asked
the attendees to Pledge Allegiance to the Flag.
        Attendance: Supervisor Bogins, Council Member Murphy, Council Member VanDenburgh
        Absent: Council Member Brandow, Council Member Flaherty

Minutes:
January 21, 2026
Offered by Supervisor Bogins and seconded by Council Member Murphy
       Supervisor Bogins – Aye, Council Member Brandow – Absent, Council Member Flaherty – Absent,
Council Member Murphy – Aye, Council Member VanDenburgh – Aye. Motion Carried.
February 2, 2026
Offered by Council Member Murphy and seconded by Council Member VanDenburgh
       Supervisor Bogins – Aye, Council Member Brandow – Absent, Council Member Flaherty – Absent,
Council Member Murphy – Aye, Council Member VanDenburgh – Aye. Motion Carried.

Public Hearing:
   • Approve Local Law #1 of 2026 to Impose Town Wide Six-Month Moratorium on Cannabis Related
       Applications
          o Offered by Council Member Murphy and seconded by Council Member VanDenburgh.
                  ▪ Opened @ 7:01
              Supervisor Bogins – Aye, Council Member Brandow – Absent, Council Member Flaherty – Absent,
              Council Member Murphy – Aye, Council Member VanDenburgh – Aye. Motion Carried.
                     S. Hilgendorff asked about the footage guidelines for churches and schools and why the
                     Board is taking so long to approve or not approve on these businesses if the State
                     already put out the guidelines. She also asks the Board if they already know how they
                     are going to vote on the moratorium, then why have a PH.
                     The Board and Tal state that the PHs are mandatory and required for local laws. They
                     then discuss how they would like to wait until the State has clearer guidelines for how
                     far Cannabis Related businesses need to be away from School, Churches, etc. As of right
                     now the guidelines that are 500ft away from school property lines and 200ft away from
                     a church’s front door.
                    They would like to make sure that the State doesn’t change the guidelines after already
                    putting them into place, that may affect a business that has already been approved and
                    in place and it would need to be looked again and this may take more time.
                    Some people in attendance ask why this is a large ordeal is many other Towns already
                    has Cannabis related businesses in their Towns. The Board and Tal state that with the
                    amount of businesses that have been approved within the County there is not as much
                    money to come from it. Want to make sure everything is set in stone before going any
                    further. When the time come and if it is approved by the Board, that they can approve
                    case by case depending on the application and if they are hitting all of their checkpoints.
                    A gentleman asks about required parking spots for the business. As of the right now the
                    Town has one applicant interest and where they are looking would have more than
                    enough parking spots.
           o Offered by Supervisor Bogins and seconded by Council Member Murphy.
                ▪ Closed @ 7:11
             Supervisor Bogins – Aye, Council Member Brandow – Absent, Council Member Flaherty – Absent,
             Council Member Murphy – Aye, Council Member VanDenburgh – Aye. Motion Carried.

New Business:
  • Authorizing Public Hearing to Extend Battery Storage Moratorium
          o Will be discussed on March 2nd Board Meeting, another 6-month extension.
  • The Town of Cairo has opened four new checking accounts as follows to alleviate the past co-mingling
      of funds; General (New), Highway, Sewer and Water
  • Authorize to release $10,000.00 for the cemetery maintenance, $2,000.00 for Veterans Services and
      $2,000.00 for Senior Program for Aging.

Old Business:
   • Approval to Increase Ambulance Employee Wages
          o Resolution No. 2026-046
   • Authorize Fire Protection Agreement between the Town of Cairo and the Cairo Fire District
          o Resolution No. 2026-063
          o The Fire Dept. is looking in building a new Fire Dept. building. There are a couple violations with
              the current building that need to be addressed. Currently working with Kaaterskill to build a
              Decon. Room and a bigger truck bay.
   • 584 Main Street
          o As of right now there was no contract signed and it was not received by the engineer yet. A bid
              will be put out to tear down the building since the owner has not meet his obligations.


Correspondence:
   • None


Grant Writer:
   • Updates on new and current Grant Information
          o Currently looking into grants for the Water Dept. and working with the Fire Dept. to look for
              Grants for them as well.
Resolution No. 2026-046 “Approve to Adopt Pay Increases for Ambulance”
Offered by Supervisor Bogins and seconded by Council Member Murphy.
       WHEREAS, the Town of Cairo has received a proposal from the Ambulance Administrator to increase
pay wages for Drivers, EMT’s, and AEMT’s $1.00 more an hour effective immediately to aide in the deficit of
personnel in the ambulance department.
       BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town Board of the Town of Cairo hereby authorizes the Ambulance
Administrator to increase hourly pay wages for Drivers, EMT’s, and AEMT’s effective immediately. The
following hourly rates are hereby established for ambulance personnel;
       AEMT $25.89
       EMT $23.07
       DRIVER $21.77
       Supervisor Bogins – Aye, Council Member Brandow – Absent, Council Member Flaherty – Absent,
Council Member Murphy – Aye, Council Member VanDenburgh – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2026-059 “Authorize Public Hearing to Extend Battery Storage Moratorium”
Offered by Council Member Murphy and seconded by Council Member VanDenburgh.
        WHEREAS, the Town of Cairo is accepting public comments on the proposed moratorium for local law
# 2 of 2026 Local Law imposing a temporary town-wide six-month moratorium on Battery Energy Storage
Systems
        THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that on March 2, 2026, at 7:00 pm, at the Cairo Town Hall, the Cairo
Town Board shall hold a Public Hearing to present the proposed six-month moratorium.
        Supervisor Bogins – Aye, Council Member Brandow – Absent, Council Member Flaherty – Absent,
Council Member Murphy – Aye, Council Member VanDenburgh – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2026-060 “Appointment and Salary – Board of Assessment Review”
Offered by Supervisor Bogins and seconded by Council Member VanDenburgh.
       BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cairo Town Board does hereby set the yearly stipend effective January 1,
2026 of the Board of Assessment Review to be as follows:
       Secretary:      $75.00 for the board’s initial 4-hour meeting and
                       $19.12/hr. thereafter as needed. (Correction to Resolution 2026-037 which reflected
                       rate of pay as $18.56 per hour.
Included in this stipend are one Grievance Day and two additional deliberation days.
       BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Assessment Review appointments and terms are as
follows:
       Kyrie Fielder will continue her appointed as Secretary for the Board of Assessment Review
(Appointment Expires: December 31, 2030)
       Supervisor Bogins – Aye, Council Member Brandow – Absent, Council Member Flaherty – Absent,
Council Member Murphy – Aye, Council Member VanDenburgh – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2026-061 “Authorize the Town Clerk to Attend NYS Town Clerks Association Regional
Meeting”
Offered by Supervisor Bogins and seconded by Council Member VanDenburgh.
       WHEREAS, the New York State Town Clerks Association (NYSTCA) will be holding there March 2026
Regional Meeting in Schenectady, New York from March 14-16, 2026,
       WHEREAS, the Town Clerk would like to attend the Education Program that is taking place on Monday,
March 16,
        BE IT RESOLVED that the Town Board does hereby authorize the Town Clerk, Kayla McAlister, to attend
the NYSTCA Educational Program in Schenectady, New York. With the total cost of registration and meal
totaling $40.00.
        Supervisor Bogins – Aye, Council Member Brandow – Absent, Council Member Flaherty – Absent,
Council Member Murphy – Aye, Council Member VanDenburgh – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2026-062 “Approve Local Law #1 of 2026 to Impose a Temporary Town-Wide Six-Month
Moratorium on Cannabis Related Applications”
Offered by Supervisor Bogins and seconded by Council Member VanDenburgh.
       WHEREAS, the Town of Cairo previously enacted a Local Law imposing a temporary moratorium in
accordance with General Municipal Law; and,
       WHEREAS, the moratorium has expired; therefore,
       BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town of Cairo hereby adopts the attached Local Law imposing a temporary
Town-wide six-month moratorium on Cannabis Related Applications.
       Supervisor Bogins – Aye, Council Member Brandow – Absent, Council Member Flaherty – Absent,
Council Member Murphy – Aye, Council Member VanDenburgh – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2026-063 “Authorize Supervisor to Sign Fire Protection Agreement Between the Town of
Cairo and the Cairo Fire District”
Offered by Council Member Murphy and seconded by Council Member VanDenburgh.
        WHEREAS, the District maintains a fire department staffed by 100%volunteer firefighters to provide
fire protection and emergency services; and the Town desires to ensure continued fire protection services for
the residents within the jurisdictional boundaries of the District; and
        WHEREAS, the District is applying for the NYS SFY 2025-2026 Volunteer Fire Infrastructure &amp;
Response Equipment (V-FIRE) Grant to fund a new fire station facility to maintain operational readiness,
        THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town Board does authorize the supervisor to sign the
agreement.
        Supervisor Bogins – Aye, Council Member Brandow – Absent, Council Member Flaherty – Absent,
Council Member Murphy – Aye, Council Member VanDenburgh – Aye. Motion Carried.

Resolution No. 2026-064 “Authorizing the Supervisor to Execute Board Meeting Rules (Revised)”
Offered by Supervisor Bogins and seconded by Council Member Murphy.
        BE IT RESOLVED, in order to have an orderly meeting and to avoid any infighting or arguments
between members of the public in attendance, the town board has adopted the following procedure to
encourage public comment and participation.
        Before the board completes the adoption of resolutions and discusses old and new business, the floor
will be open for public comment.
The board shall recognize each person who wishes to speak and that person shall
have five minutes to speak. Once said person has finished speaking, they have yielded to the floor and shall
not be recognized to speak again.
Members of the public shall not be permitted to ‘go back and forth; between each other so that the meeting
does not evolve into an argument between members of those in attendance.
The board asks that everyone be respectful in their comments and avoid raised voices or personal attacks.
We may, from time to time, disagree but we should all respect each other’s opinions during each town board
meeting as we exercise our right to speak at each meeting.
        Supervisor Bogins – Aye, Council Member Brandow – Absent, Council Member Flaherty – Absent,
Council Member Murphy – Aye, Council Member VanDenburgh – Aye. Motion Carried.
Resolution No. 2026-065 “Approve to Hire Full-Tiem Parks, Buildings & Grounds Maintenance Helper”
Offered by Council Member Murphy and seconded by Council Member VanDenburgh.
        WHEREAS there is currently a full-time employment vacancy for the Town of Cairo Parks, Buildings and
Grounds Department for a Maintenance Helper; therefore,
        BE IT RESOLVED that the Town Board of the Town of Cairo approves to hire _Artis Brantley_ for full-
time Maintenance Helper in the Parks, Buildings and Grounds Department at a pay rate of $_18.00_ per hour
effective immediately.
        Supervisor Bogins – Aye, Council Member Brandow – Absent, Council Member Flaherty – Absent,
Council Member Murphy – Aye, Council Member VanDenburgh – Aye. Motion Carried.

Public Comments:
   • Nicole Ambrosio – Grant Writer
          o Asked about the computer that is supposed to be up and running for board meetings. The
             Board said they have to get the computer back from one the departments.
   • Earl asks the Board abut a DEC study on the Battery Storage Moratorium. The Board said that any
       comments and questions pertaining to this can be addressed at the PH on 3/2.

Adjourn Town Board Meeting @ 7:37PM
Offered by Council Member Murphy and seconded by Supervisor Bogins.
       Supervisor Bogins – Aye, Council Member Brandow – Absent, Council Member Flaherty – Absent,
Council Member Murphy – Aye, Council Member VanDenburgh – Aye. Motion Carried.

       Respectfully Submitted


       Kayla L. McAlister
       Cairo Town Clerk
