                          TOWN OF CARMEL
                        LOCAL LAW #5 OF 2024
    A LOCAL LAW ESTABLISHING A SIX MONTH MORATORIUM PROHIBITING
     THE REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS FOR
          “SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS” IN THE TOWN OF CARMEL

       Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Carmel, Putnam County, State
 of New York as follows:

SECTION 1: PURPOSE
The purpose of this local law is to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the Town of Carmel and to maintain the status quo by temporarily
suspending the processing of land use approvals as provided herein and to further
suspend the rights of land owners and their designees to obtain development approvals
as identified below for a period of six months from the date of the adoption of this local
law while the Town Board studies, analyzes and determines potential appropriate
revisions and amendments to the Town Code regarding the propriety of Solar Energy
Systems (as defined below).

SECTION 2: DEFINITIONS
ACTIVE AGRICULTURAL LAND: Land used for a Farm Operation in accordance with
Agriculture and Markets Law § 301 – uses of which include production of crops, livestock,
and livestock products – within the past five years.

BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM: One or more devices, assembled together,
capable of storing energy in order to supply electrical energy at a future time (not to include
a stand-alone 12-volt car battery or an electric motor vehicle).

BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A combination of Solar Panels and
Solar Energy Equipment integrated into any building envelope system such as vertical
facades, semitransparent skylight systems, roofing materials, or shading over windows,
which produce electricity for onsite consumption.

FACILITY AREA: The cumulative land area occupied during the commercial operation of the
solar energy generating facility. This shall include all areas and equipment within the facility’s
perimeter boundary – including the solar energy system, onsite interconnection equipment,
onsite electrical energy storage equipment, and any other associated equipment – as well
as any site improvements beyond the facility’s perimeter boundary such as access roads,
permanent parking areas, or other permanent improvements. The facility area shall not
include site improvements established for impact mitigation purposes, including but not
limited to vegetative buffers and landscaping features.

FARM OPERATION: Land and on-farm buildings, equipment, facilities, and practices which
contribute to the production, preparation, and marketing of crops, livestock, and livestock
products as a commercial enterprise (in accordance with Agriculture & Markets Law §
301[11]).


GLARE: The effect by reflections of light with intensity sufficient as determined in a
commercially reasonable manner to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual
performance and visibility in any material respects.

GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A Solar Energy System which is
secured to the ground via a pole, ballast system, or other mounting system; is detached
from any other structure; and which generates electricity for onsite or offsite consumption.

KILOWATT (kW): A unit of power equal to 1,000 watts. The nameplate capacity of
residential and commercial solar energy systems may be described in terms of kW.

MEGAWATT (MW): A unit of power equal to 1,000 kW. The nameplate capacity of larger
solar energy systems may be described in terms of MW.

MINERAL SOIL GROUPS 1-4 (MSG 1-4): Soils recognized by the New York State (NYS)
Department of Agriculture and Markets as having the highest value based on soil
productivity and capability, in accordance with the uniform statewide land classification
system developed for the NYS Agricultural Assessment Program.

NAMEPLATE CAPACITY: A solar energy system’s maximum electric power output under
optimal operating conditions. Nameplate Capacity may be expressed in terms of Alternating
Current (AC) or Direct Current (DC).

NATIVE PERENNIAL VEGETATION: Native wildflowers, forbs, and grasses that serve as
habitat, forage, and migratory way stations for Pollinators and shall not include any
prohibited or regulated invasive species as determined by the NYS Department of
Environmental Conservation.

ON-FARM SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A Solar Energy System located on a farm which is
a “farm operation” (as defined by Article 25-AA of the Agriculture and Markets Law, which
may include one or multiple contiguous or non-contiguous parcels) in an agricultural district,
which is designed, installed, and operated so that the anticipated annual total amounts of
electrical energy generated do not exceed more than 110 percent of the anticipated annual
total electrical energy consumed by the farm operation.

POLLINATOR: Bees, birds, bats, and other insects or wildlife that pollinate flowering plants,
and includes both wild and managed insects.

ROOF-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A Solar Energy System located on the roof
of any legally permitted building or structure that produces electricity for onsite or offsite
consumption.

SOLAR ACCESS: Space open to the sun and clear of overhangs or shade so as to permit
the use of active and/or passive Solar Energy Systems on individual properties.


SOLAR ENERGY EQUIPMENT: Electrical material, hardware, inverters, conduit, energy
storage devices, or other electrical and photovoltaic equipment associated with the
production and storage of electricity.

SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: The components and subsystems required to convert solar
energy into electric energy suitable for use. The term includes, but is not limited to,
Solar Panels and Solar Energy Equipment. A Solar Energy System is classified as a
Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3, or Tier 4 Solar Energy System as follows.

A. Tier 1 Solar Energy Systems include the following:
    1. Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Systems.
    2. Building-Integrated Solar Energy Systems.
    3. Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems with a Nameplate Capacity of up to 25
       kW AC, or Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems with a total solar panel
       surface area of up to 4,000 square feet.
    4. On-Farm Solar Energy Systems
B. Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems include the following:
    1. Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems not included under Tier 1 Solar
       Energy Systems with a Nameplate Capacity of up to 1 MW AC and which
       generate no more than 110% of the electricity consumed on the site over the
       previous 12 months; or Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems not included
       under Tier 1 Solar Energy Systems with a Facility Area of up to 8 acres in size
       and which generate up to 110% of the electricity consumed on the site over
       the previous 12 months.
C.Tier 3 Solar Energy Systems include the following:
    1. Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems not included under Tier 1 or Tier 2 Solar
       Energy Systems with a Nameplate Capacity of up to 5 MW AC; or Ground-
       Mounted Solar Energy Systems not included under Tier 1 or Tier 2 Solar Energy
       Systems with a Facility Area of up to 40 acres in size.
D. Tier 4 Solar Energy Systems are Solar Energy Systems which are not included
   under Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 3 Solar Energy Systems.

SOLAR PANEL: A photovoltaic device capable of collecting and converting solar
energy into electricity.

SECTION 3: LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS
The Town of Carmel is a rural, largely residential community, having a population of
approximately 33,576 people according to the results of the 2020 census.

The three hamlets in Carmel – Carmel, Mahopac, and Mahopac Falls (Red Mills), have
been the historic centers of the Town since its founding.

The Town of Carmel is home to a number of lakefront residential communities that
surround the many small and large lakes and reservoirs within the Town.

The Town’s geography, like much of the Hudson Highlands region within which it is


situated, consists of a series of hills and valleys. The road names in Carmel are
evidence of the Town’s geography – Seminary Hill, Cherry Hill, Weber Hill, Shear Hill,
Barrett Hill, Hitchcock Hill roads – lots are carved into the hillsides and valleys, many
providing attractive vistas to the Town’s lakes and reservoirs. Within the valleys,
remnant farmsteads still exist.

The Town of Carmel is actively engaged in the revision of its comprehensive plan and
zoning code, in order to address issues of growth and development on a community-
wide basis. One specific area of concern and inquiry is Solar Energy Systems within
the Town.

Without study, there is a possibility that certain solar energy systems could be located in
unsuitable areas within the Town and/or on particular lots without adequate dimensional
regulations in place. The potential for the unsuitable location of, and lack of proper
dimensional regulations for, such uses would have materially adverse and irreversible
impacts on the Town, e.g., detrimental visual impact.

In addition, the Town intends to study monitoring and mitigation strategies, heat island
effect, fire hazards, runoff management, habitat disruption and recycling plans to
minimize the negative impacts of solar farms on the environment and surrounding
communities.

In short, the Town is very concerned with the detrimental effects of Solar Energy
Systems on the health, safety, welfare and quality of life of the residents and citizens of
the Town of Carmel. Thus, the Town Board has decided to review the Town Code and
consider potential revisions thereto to address the Town’s concerns with Solar Energy
Systems.

In order to allow the Town Board time to complete its review, draft proposed new
legislation and enact any such legislation, the Town Board deems it in the best interest
of the general health, safety and welfare of the residents of the Town of Carmel to
impose a moratorium prohibiting the review and approval of applications and permits for
Solar Energy System in the Town of Carmel.

SECTION 4: MORATORIUM
Pursuant to the statutory authority vested in the Town to regulate and control land use
and to protect the health, safety and welfare of its residents, the Town Board of the
Town of Carmel hereby declares a six-month moratorium on the review and approval of
new as of yet unfiled and all pending applications for any and all land use approvals,
including site plan approvals, subdivision plats, building permits, special use permits
and variances (hereinafter “Land Use Approvals”) for all Solar Energy Systems within
the Town. During the period of this local law:

        -   The Planning Board shall not accept any application, grant any approval to,
            or continue the review of a subdivision plat, site plan, special use permit or
            other permit that includes the permitting, construction and/or development of


           a Solar Energy System within the Town.
       -   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not accept any application or grant any
           approval for a variance or other permit that would have as a result the
           permitting, construction and development of a Solar Energy System within
           the Town.
       -   The Building Department shall not accept any building permit application or
           grant any Certificate of Occupancy or Certificate of Compliance for a Solar
           Energy System within the Town.
       -   Projects currently under construction and projects that have received final
           approvals are not subject to this moratorium.

SECTION 5: TERM
The moratorium imposed by this Local Law shall be effective six months from the
effective date of this Local Law.

SECTION 6: HARDSHIP WAIVER
  A. Should any owner of property affected by this Local Law suffer any unnecessary
     and extraordinary hardship due to the enactment and application of this Local Law,
     then the owner of said property may apply to the Town Board of the Town of
     Carmel in writing for a variance from strict compliance with this Local Law upon
     submission of proof of such unnecessary hardship. For the purposes of this Local
     Law, unnecessary or extraordinary hardship shall not be:
         a. the mere concern that regulations may be changed or adopted, or that the
            Plan may be amended; or
         b. the mere delay in being permitted to make an application or waiting for a
            decision on the application for a variance, special permit, site plan,
            subdivision, or other permit during the period of the moratorium imposed by
            this Local Law.
  B. An application for an exception based upon unnecessary or extraordinary hardship
     shall be filed with the Town Clerk no earlier than the effective date of this Local
     Law, including a fee of one thousand and five hundred 00/100 Dollars ($1,500.00)
     for each tax map parcel claimed to be subject to unnecessary or extraordinary
     hardship, by the landowner or the applicant upon the consent of the landowner.
     The application shall provide a recitation of the specific facts that are alleged to
     support the claim of unnecessary or extraordinary hardship and shall contain such
     other information and/or documentation as the Town Board, shall prescribe as
     necessary for the Town Board to be fully informed with respect to the application.

   C. Procedure. Upon submission of a written application to the Town Clerk by the
      property owner seeking a hardship waiver from the provisions of this Local Law,
      the Town Board shall, within forty-five (45) days of receipt of a completed
      application, schedule a Public Hearing on said application upon five (5) days’
      written notice in the official newspaper of the Town of Carmel. At said Public
      Hearing, the property owner and any other parties wishing to present evidence
      with regard to the application shall have an opportunity to be heard, and the Town
      Board shall, within thirty (30) days of the close of said Public Hearing, render its


       decision either granting, denying, granting in part or denying in part, the application
       for a hardship waiver from the strict requirements of this Local Law. If the Town
       Board determines that a property owner will suffer an unnecessary or extraordinary
       hardship if this Local Law is strictly applied to a particular property, then the Town
       Board shall vary the application to this Local Law to the minimum extent necessary
       to provide the property owner relief from strict compliance with this Local Law.

   D. Standard of Review. In reviewing an application for an exception based upon a
      claim of necessary or extraordinary hardship, the Town Board shall consider the
      following criteria:
          a. The extent to which the proposed development activity would cause
             significant environmental harm, adversely impact surrounding natural
             resource areas, public health, comfort or safety concerns and/or have a
             negative impact upon the Town.
          b. Whether the moratorium will expose a property owner or applicant to
             substantial monetary liability to a third person or would leave the property
             owner or applicable completely unable, after a thorough review of
             alternative solutions, to have a reasonable alternative use of the property.

SECTION 7: HOME RULE
Nothing in this Local Law is intended or shall be construed to limit the home rule authority
of the Town under State Law or to limit the Town’s discretion in setting fees and charges
in connection with any applications requiring Town approval.

SECTION 8: SEVERABILITY
If any part or provision of this Local Law or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance be adjudged invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment
shall be confined in its operation to the part or provision or application directly involved
in the controversy in which judgment shall have been rendered and shall not affect or
impair the validity of the remainder of this Local Law or the application thereof to other
persons or circumstances, and the Town Board of the Town of Carmel hereby declares
that it would have passed this Local Law or the remainder thereof had such invalid
application or invalid provision been apparent.

SECTION 9: REPEAL
All ordinances, local laws and parts thereof inconsistent with this Local Law are hereby
repealed to the extent of such inconsistency.

SECTION 10: SEQRA
This local law constitutes a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality Review
Act inasmuch as it constitutes the adoption of a moratorium on land development or
construction. As such this project is not subject to review under the State Environmental
Quality Act.

SECTION 11: EFFECTIVE DATE
This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the Secretary of


State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.
