                                             Schedule A


                                         Town of Penfield


                                     Local Law No. 1 of 2025

             Amending Chapter 250 to Establish Article XVI of Penfield Town Code,
                          Renewable Energy Systems Regulations

Be it enacted by the Town Board of the Town of Penfield as follows:

Section 1.       TITLE.



This Local Law shall be known as " Amending Chapter 250, To Establish Article XVI of Penfield
Town Code, Renewable Energy Systems ( RES) Regulations

Section 2. Legislative Intent and Purpose


The Code of the Town of Penfield (Penfield Town Code) does not currently contain zoning and
land use regulations pertaining to a wide range of renewable energy systems. The purpose of
local law is to provide renewable energy systems provisions that will encourage sustainable
practices and promote safe, effective, and efficient use of renewable energy that may reduce
consumption of non-renewable energy. The proposed amendment to Chapter 250 (Zoning and
Land Use) will establish regulations to allow the installation, construction and utilization of

renewable energy systems in a way that promotes the health, safety, and welfare of the public
and is compatible with surrounding land uses.

Section 3. Amendment to Section 250- 2.2 Terms Defined


The following Renewable Energy Systems ( RES) definitions shall be added to Penfield Town
Code Section 250- 2. 2


ABANDONMENT, RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM
Any RES that ceases to operate as designed for 12 months consecutively.

ACCESSORY USE, RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM
A renewable energy system that is limited to on- site use and up to 125% of monthly, on- site
consumption within the limits set forth in the NYS Uniform Code.


BATTERY(IES)
A single cell or a group of cells connected electrically in series, in parallel, or a combination of
both, which can charge, discharge, and store energy electrochemically. For the purposes of this
law, batteries utilized in consumer products are excluded from these requirements.




                                                  1
BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
An electronic system that protects energy storage systems from operating outside their safe
operating parameters and disconnects electrical power to the energy storage system or places it in
a safe condition if potentially hazardous temperatures or other conditions are detected.

BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM (BESS)
One or more devices, assembled together, capable of storing energy in order to supply electrical
energy at a future time, not to include a stand- alone 12 -volt car battery or an electric motor
vehicle.



BESS EQUIPMENT BUILDING
A building that is built for the primary intention of housing Battery Energy Storage System
equipment, is classified as Group F- 1 occupancy as defined in the NYS Uniform Code, and
complies with the following:
   A.    The building' s only use is battery energy storage, energy generation, and other
           electrical grid -related operations.

    B.     No other occupancy types are permitted in the building.
    C.     Occupants in the rooms and areas containing battery energy storage systems are limited
           to personnel that operate, maintain, service, test, and repair the battery energy storage
           system and other energy systems.
    D.     Administrative and support personnel are permitted in areas within the buildings that do
           not contain battery energy storage system, provided the following:
             a.
                 The areas do not occupy more than 10 percent of the building area of the story in
                 which they are located.
             b.   A means of egress is provided from the administrative and support use areas to
                  the public way that does not require occupants to traverse through areas
                  containing battery energy storage systems or other energy system equipment.

ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION, TIER 1
An electric vehicle charging station that does not require the installation, alteration, or repair of
any electrical wiring.

ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION, TIER 2
An electric vehicle charging station that requires the installation, alteration, or repair of any
electrical wiring and is fed by services or feeders rated less than 400 amps.

ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION, TIER 3
An electric vehicle charging station that requires the installation, alteration, or repair of any
electrical wiring and is fed by services or feeders rated equal to or greater than 400 amps.

FACILITY AREA, RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM
The area occupied by any components and subsystems which are required for the operation of a
renewable energy system including, but not limited to, energized equipment, utility lines, and
perimeter fencing.

GEOTHERMAL ENERGY SYSTEM, CLOSED-LOOP




                                                   2
A system that circulates a heat transfer fluid, typically food -grade antifreeze, through a closed
system of pipes or coils buried beneath the land surface or anchored to the bottom of a body of
water.



GEOTHERMAL ENERGY SYSTEM
A system that harnesses the relatively constant temperature of the earth or a body of water to
provide space heating and/or cooling. System components include open or closed loops of pipe,
coils or plates; a fluid that absorbs and transfers heat; and a heat pump unit that processes heat
for use or disperses heat for cooling; and an air distribution system.

GEOTHERMAL, HEAT TRANSFER FLUID
Nontoxic, food -grade or United States Pharmacopeia (USP) -grade fluids of potable water or
aqueous solution of propylene glycol not to exceed 25%     by weight.

GEOTHERMAL ENERGY SYSTEM, OPEN -LOOP
A system that uses groundwater as a heat transfer fluid by drawing groundwater from a well to a
heat pump and then discharging the water over land or directly into a water body or into an
injection well


HEIGHT, WIND ENERGY SYSTEM
The vertical distance measured from grade level to the highest point of the wind energy system,
including the blade or hub height, whichever is greater.

LOT COVERAGE
The total percentage of impervious surfaces on a lot that can contribute to storm runoff,
including, but not limited to, driveways, walkways, and structures.

METEOROLOGICAL EVALUATION TOWER (MET)
A tower affixed with meteorological equipment that is used to verify the wind characteristics at a
potential site for a Wind Energy System.

PRINCIPAL USE, RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM
A renewable energy system that is permitted for both on and off-site use and exceeds 125%      of

monthly, on- site consumption within the limits set forth in the NYS Uniform Code.

RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM
All components related to the production, use, storage, conversion, and/ or delivery of alternative
energy sources that may reduce the reliance on fossil fuels.

SOLAR ACCESS
Space open to the sun and clear of overhangs or shade so as to permit the use of active and/ or
passive solar energy systems on individual properties.



SOLAR ENERGY EQUIPMENT




                                                 3
Electrical material, hardware, inverters, conduit, storage devices, or other electrical and
photovoltaic equipment associated with the conversion of solar energy into consumable electric
energy.


SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
The components and subsystems required to convert solar energy into consumable electric
energy. The term includes but is not limited to, solar panels and solar energy equipment. The
area of a Solar Energy System includes all the land inside the perimeter of the Solar Energy
System, which extends to any interconnection equipment.

SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, TIER 1
Roof -mounted Solar Energy Systems and/ or building -integrated Solar Energy Systems with a
nameplate capacity of up to 25 kW DC and generate no more than           125% of the electricity
consumed on the site over the previous 12 months.


SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, TIER 2
Ground -mounted Solar Energy Systems with a nameplate capacity of up to 25 kW DC, a total
surface area of all solar panels on the lot up to 4,000 square feet, and generate no more than
125% of the electricity consumed on the site over the previous 12 months.


SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, TIER 3
Any Solar Energy Systems that exceed the parameters of Tier 1 and Tier 2 Solar Energy
Systems.


WIND ENERGY SYSTEM
The components and subsystems required to convert wind energy into consumable electric
energy. The term includes but is not limited to, wind turbines and wind energy equipment.

Section 4. Amendment to Penfield Town Code Section 250- 7.4


The section shall be amended as follows, with underlined text being added and strike -through text
removed.




  250- 7. 4 Exceptions to height limitations.


The limitations affecting the height of structures in the district regulations in Article V of this
chapter shall not apply to the appurtenant appendages and structures such as shall include, but
not be limited to parapet walls not exceeding three feet in height, chimneys, smokestacks, church
spires, roof -mounted solar panels, flagpoles, TV antennas, penthouses for mechanical equipment,
or to barns, pole barns, silos, and other common farm -related structures, and water tanks;
provided however, such appendages and structures shall comply with all other provisions of this
chapter and any other applicable ordinance.




Section 5. Proposed Article XV regulations.




                                                    4
The following regulations shall be added to Chapter 250, as Article XVI of the Penfield Town
Code.


Article XVI Renewable Energy Systems

A. Purpose and intent; Applicability; Conflicts with other provisions. The purpose of these
   Renewable Energy Systems ( RES) provisions is to encourage sustainable practices and
   promote safe, effective, and efficient use of renewable energy that may reduce consumption
   of non-renewable energy. The regulations contained in this section are intended to encourage
   renewable energy systems in a way that promotes the health, safety, and welfare of the public
   and is compatible with surrounding land uses.

    1) Applicability. The regulations outlined in this section shall conform with the provisions
       of this section and shall be located only in areas specifically permitted in accordance with
        the provisions of Chapter 250.


        a) Any RES lawfully existing prior to the effective date of this section shall be deemed
           nonconforming and shall be treated as preexisting nonconforming structures/uses
           under this chapter.



        b) Any nonconforming RES will be reviewed under the process detailed in § 250- 7. 13.


    2) Conflicts with other local, state, and federal provisions.


        a) In instances where there are any provisions in the Code of the Town of Penfield
            Penfield Town Code) that conflict with the regulations set forth in this Article, the
           regulations contained in this Article shall prevail.


        b) In instances where the provisions in this Article conflict with state or federal laws, the
           applicable state or federal law shall prevail.



    3) General requirements. The following requirements apply to any RES included herein.

        a) For any RES that is subject to site plan review, the Town of Penfield shall impose and
           may update as appropriate a schedule of fees to recover expenses associated with
           engineering, environmental, or legal services determined to be reasonably necessary
           for the processing of an application under this law.

        b) A building permit is required for the installation, addition, renovation, or demolition
           of any RES in which electrical wiring is installed, altered or repaired on systems
           operating on 50 or more volts.

        c) Any RES shall be designed, erected, and installed in accordance with all applicable
           codes, regulations, and industry standards including, but not limited to, the NYS


                                                  5
            Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code (" Building Code"),      the NYS Energy
            Conservation Code (" Energy Code"), and the Penfield Town Code, as amended or
            changed.




         d) For any project requiring a site plan, prior to the issuance of the building permit or
            final approval by the Planning Board, construction and/ or site plan documents must
            be signed and stamped by a NYS Licensed Professional Engineer or NYS Registered
            Architect.


         e) Lot coverage. Lot coverage shall comply with the overlying zoning district.

     4) Abandonment and Decommissioning.

         a) Upon abandonment, the owner and/or operator must notify the Building Department
            and indicate the timeline to update and/or implement the site' s decommissioning plan.

         b) Decommissioning plans are required for Tier 3 SES, Principal Use WES, Principal
            Use BESS, and EVCS Tier 3.


         c) The decommissioning plan must be completed within 12 months of notification.

         d) If the owner and/ or operator fails to comply with decommissioning upon any
            abandonment, the Town of Penfield may, at its discretion, utilize the bond and/ or
            security to remove the RES and/or restore the site in accordance with the
            decommissioning plan.

B.   Solar Energy System ( SES)

     1) Intent. A Solar Energy System (SES) takes advantage of a safe, abundant, renewable, and
        non-polluting energy source. These regulations support local, state, and federal renewable
        energy goals and provide guidelines that will encourage the development and use of Solar
        Energy Systems in a way that promotes the health, safety, and welfare of the public and is
        compatible with surrounding land uses.

     2) Applicability. This section applies to any SES installed and constructed after the effective
        date of this section. It applies to any upgrade, modification, or structural change that
        alters the physical size, electric generation capacity, location, or placement of an existing
        SES, except for repairs or in-kind replacement of equipment.


     3) General Requirements


         a) Glare. All solar panels shall have anti -reflective coating( s).

         b) When reviewing proposed development applications on sites adjacent to an existing
            SES, the board having jurisdiction shall consider how the proposed development will
            impact the existing system' s access to sunlight. When reviewing a proposed SES, the

                                                    6
       board having jurisdiction shall consider impacts to future development on adjacent
       lots.


    c) Components of an SES that are attached to the side of a building are prohibited unless
       such components are designed as a building -integrated SES.

4) Tier 1 Solar Energy Systems. Tier 1 SES are permitted in all zoning districts and are
   exempt from site plan review under the local zoning code or other land use regulation,
   subject to the following:

    a) Solar Panels on pitched roofs shall be mounted with a maximum distance of eight
       inches ( 8") between the roof surface and the highest edge of the system.


    b) Solar Panels on pitched roofs shall be installed parallel to the roof surface on which
       they are mounted or attached.

    c) Solar Panels installed on pitched roofs shall not extend above the highest point of the
       roof surface on which they are mounted or attached.

   d) Solar Panels installed on flat roofs shall not extend above the top of the surrounding
       parapet, or more than 24 inches ( 24")    above the flat surface of the roof, whichever is
       higher.


   e) Height: A roof -mounted SES shall be considered exempt from the height limitation,
       as set forth in 250- 7. 4.


   f) Any building -integrated SES that is proposed to be installed in conjunction with the
      construction of a new building shall be included on the construction documents
      submitted with the building permit application for the construction of the building
      containing the system.

5) Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems. Tier 2 SES are permitted in all zoning districts as accessory
   structures and a site plan is required. The site plan shall be subject to administrative
  review by the Planning and Engineering Department and meet the following
  requirements:



   a) Location. Installation of any ground -mounted SES shall only be permitted in the side
      or rear yards. On corner lots, an SES may not be located closer to the right-of-way
      than the principal structure.



   b) Setbacks. Ground -mounted SES shall be subject to the setbacks within the underlying
      zoning district. In the case of cluster subdivisions or in districts with no established
      setbacks, the minimum setback shall be 10 feet.


   c) Height. Tier 2 SES shall comply with the following height limitations. All height
      measurements are to be calculated when the SES is oriented at maximum tilt:




                                             7
                        Ground -mounted SES Height Restrictions
                          Setback                       Maximum Height
                           10 feet                                6ft
                         10 — 15 feet                             12ft
                     Greater than 15 feet                         15ft


   d) Screening and Visibility. Systems shall be located on the property to minimize views
      from neighboring properties. If required, screening materials may include, but are not
      limited to :


       1] Landscaping and/ or natural vegetation

       2] Privacy Fencing

       3] Berms


   e) Solar Access. Solar Energy Equipment shall be located in a manner to avoid and/ or
      minimize blockage of views from surrounding properties and shading of property to
      the north, while still providing adequate solar access.

6) Tier 3 Solar Energy Systems. Tier 3 SES are only permitted through the issuance of a
   conditional use permit within the RA -2, RR -1, GB, LB, LI, LLD, PD, and MUD zoning
  districts, and are subject to the requirements set forth in Section 205- 13 for conditional
  use permits and site plan requirements in Section 250- 12, in addition to the requirements
  set forth in this Section.


   a) Ground -mounted Tier 3 SES are only permitted in RA -2 and RR -1.

   b) Applications for the installation of Tier 3 SES shall be:


       1] Reviewed by the Planning Department for completeness and subject to a public
          hearing with the Town of Penfield Planning Board.

       2] Referred to the Monroe County Planning Department pursuant to General
          Municipal Law 239- m, 239- n, and/ or 239 -nn, if required.


   c) Application Requirements. Applications for Tier 3 SES, including materials for site
      plan review based on 250- 12 and Town of Penfield' s Design and Construction
      Specifications, shall additionally include the following:

       1] Name, address, and contact information of the proposed or potential system
          installer and the owner and/ or operator of the SES. The name, address and contact
          information of the final system installer shall be submitted prior to the issuance of
          a building permit.




                                            8
2] Name, address, contact information, and signature of the project applicant, as well
      as all property owners, demonstrating their consent to the application and the use
      of the property for the SES.

3] Nameplate Capacity of the SES.

4] Zoning district designation for the parcel( s) of land comprising the Facility Area.

5] Map(s) of MSG 1- 4 soils and active agriculture lands on the parcel( s) comprising
   the Facility Area when installing ground -mounted systems.

6] Adjacent land uses on contiguous parcels within 200 feet of the site boundary.

7] Proposed changes to the site, including site grading, vegetation clearing and
   planting, the removal of trees, access roads, exterior lighting, signage, fencing,
   landscaping, and screening vegetation or structures.

8] A screening and landscaping plan that specifies the locations, elevations, height,
   plant species, and/ or materials that will comprise the structures, landscaping,
      and/ or grading used to screen and/ or mitigate any adverse aesthetic effects of the
      system. To the extent practicable, screening shall include native perennial
      vegetation and foraging habitat beneficial to game birds, songbirds, and
      pollinators. The amount of landscaped screening will be determined at the
      reasonable discretion of the Board having jurisdiction and Town consultant( s).

9] Erosion and sediment control and stormwater management plans prepared to NYS
      Department of Environmental Conservation standards, if applicable, and to such
      standards as may be established by the Planning Board.

10]           A one- or three -line electrical diagram detailing the entire SES layout,
      including the number of Solar Panels in each solar array, solar collector
      installation, associated components, inverters, electrical interconnection methods,
      and utility meter, with all National Electrical Code -compliant disconnects and
      over current devices. The diagram should describe the location and layout of all
      Battery Energy Storage System components if applicable and should include
      applicable setbacks and other bulk and area standards.


11]          A preliminary equipment specification sheet that documents all proposed
      Solar Panels, system components, mounting systems, racking system details, and
      inverters that are to be installed. A final equipment specification sheet shall be
      submitted prior to the issuance of a building permit.

12]          A Property Operation and Maintenance Plan that describes continuing site
      maintenance, anticipated dual -use, and property upkeep, such as mowing and
      trimming.




                                        9
    13]          A Decommissioning Plan that shall conform to the requirements set forth
          in the Town' s Design and Construction Specifications. The submitted
          Decommissioning Plan shall be signed by the owner and/ or operator of the Tier 3
          SES and be submitted by the applicant.

d) Conditional Use Permit and Site Plan Standards. A conditional use permit and site
  plan approval may be granted by the board having jurisdiction only after it has found
  that all the following standards and conditions have been satisfied:

   1] Lot size. The property on which the Tier 3 SES is placed shall meet the lot size
      requirements of the underlying zoning district.

   2] Multiple lots. Where a Tier 3 SES comprises multiple lots, regardless of
      ownership by an individual or multiple participating landowners, the lots shall be
      treated as a single project area for dimensional standards and requirements,
      including but not limited to lot size, lot coverage, and setbacks. Documentation of
      any agreements between property owner(s) and Tier 3 SES operator including, but
      not limited to, lease( s),   memorandum of lease( s),   or easement( s) shall be
      provided.




   3] Setbacks. Any Tier 3 SES shall comply with the following setbacks:

          a] Minimum of 50 feet from any lot line adjacent to the project; and

          b] Minimum of 100 feet from any occupied structure on adjacent lot(s).

   4] Height. Any Tier 3 SES shall comply with the building height limitations for
      principal structures of the underlying zoning district. This height requirement can
      be waived by the board having jurisdiction if the panel height is designed to
      accommodate continued or new agricultural purposes or meet covered parking
      requirements.



   5] Lot coverage calculation. The calculation for lot coverage shall include, but not be
      limited to, the following:

          a] Foundation systems, typically consisting of driven piles or monopoles or
             helical screws, with or without small concrete collars.


          b] All mechanical equipment of the SES, including any pad -mounted structure
             for batteries, switchboard, transformers, or storage cells.

          c] Access roads and sidewalks.


          d] Any other impervious surfaces as defined by NYSDEC.




                                           10
    6] Screening and buffering. The layout and screening of any SES shall be designed
       to minimize views from neighboring properties to the greatest extent practicable.

   7] Lighting. Lighting of the Tier 3 SES shall follow lighting requirements within §
         250- 7. 17 and the Town of Penfield' s Design and Construction Specifications.


    8] Underground Requirements. All utility lines located outside of the Facility Area
       shall be placed underground to the extent feasible and as permitted by the serving
         utility, with the exception of the main service connection at the utility company
         right-of-way and any new interconnection equipment, including without
         limitation any poles, with new easements and right- of-way.

   9] Vehicular Paths. Vehicular paths within the Facility Area shall be designed in
      compliance with NYS Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code requirements
         to ensure emergency access while minimizing the extent of impervious materials
         and soil compaction.



   10]          Signage. No signage or graphic content shall be displayed on the SES
         except for signage required
                                    by the National Electric Code ( NEC), the
         manufacturer' s name, equipment specification information, safety information,
         and 24- hour emergency contact information. Said information shall be depicted
         within an area of no more than eight ( 8) square feet.


   11]          Fencing Requirements. Fencing shall be provided around the perimeter of
         the SES and shall comply with the fencing requirements set forth in the National
         Electrical Code ( NEC).


e) Agricultural Resources. Any Tier 3 SES installed on Prime Farmland or Farmland of
   Statewide Importance, as defined by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, shall meet
  the requirements set forth below.


   1] The limit of disturbance shall not exceed 50 % of the area of Prime Farmland or
         Farmland of Statewide Importance of parcels included in the project area.


   2] Access roads are to be located along the edge of agricultural fields, in areas next
         to hedgerows and field boundaries, and in the nonagricultural portions of the site.


         a] The width of access roads across or along agricultural fields is to be no wider
            than 20 feet so as to minimize the loss of agricultural lands and comply with
            the State of New York fire access code.


         b] The surface of solar farm access roads to be constructed through agricultural
            fields should be level with the adjacent field surface where possible.




                                          11
             3] Drainage and erosion control measures shall be designed to avoid or mitigate
                impacts to neighboring properties and protect the viability of nearby agricultural
                operations.




             4] To the maximum extent practicable, any Tier 3 SES located on Prime Farmland
                shall be constructed in accordance with the construction requirements of the New
                York State Department of Agriculture and Markets and the New York State
                Energy Research and Development Authority.

         f) Ownership Changes. If the owner or operator of a Tier 3 SES changes or the owner of
            the property changes, the conditional use permit shall remain in effect, provided that
            the successor owner or operator assumes in writing all of the obligations of the
            conditional use permit, site plan approval, and decommissioning plan. A new owner
            or operator of the SES shall notify the Building Department of such change in
            ownership or operator within 30 days of the ownership change.

C.   Wind Energy System ( WES)

     1) Intent. These regulations are intended to allow the installation of Wind Energy Systems
        in a manner that protects public health and safety, supports local, state, and federal
        renewable energy goals, and provides guidelines that will encourage the development and
        use of Wind Energy Systems in a way that promotes the health, safety, and welfare of the
        public and is compatible with surrounding land uses.

     2) Applicability. This section applies to any WES installed and constructed after the
        effective date of this section. It applies to any upgrade, modification, or structural change
        that alters the physical size, electric generation capacity, location, or placement of an
        existing WES, except for repairs or in-kind replacement of equipment.

     3) General Requirements


        a) A building permit is required for the installation, addition, renovation, or demolition
           of any WES.

        b) Any WES shall be designed, erected, and installed in accordance with all applicable
           codes, regulations, and industry standards as referenced in the NYS Uniform Fire
           Prevention and Building Code (" Building Code"), the NYS Energy Conservation
           Code (" Energy Code"), and the Town of Penfield Code, as amended or changed.


        c) Siting. The proposed location of any WES shall reduce negative impacts to birds and
           bats by siting the WES to avoid disturbance of areas where migrating, roosting, and
           breeding occur. Applicants shall consult regulations and guidance provided by the
           NYSDEC and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.


        d) Design. The following design requirements apply to the installation of any WES.




                                                 12
      1] Access.


         a] All ground -mounted electrical and control equipment shall be labeled and
            secured to prevent unauthorized access.



         b] Wind towers shall be designed and installed so as not to provide step bolts or
            a ladder readily accessible to the public for a minimum height of eight feet
            above the ground.


     2] Electrical wires. All electrical wires associated with a WES, other than wires
        necessary to connect the wind generator to the wind tower wiring, the wind tower
        wiring to the disconnect junction box, and the grounding wires, shall be located
        underground.



     3] Lighting. Wind towers and generators shall not be artificially lighted unless such
        lighting is required by the Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA). Lighting of
        other parts of the WES, such as appurtenant structures, shall be limited to that
        required for safety purposes and shall be reasonably shielded from abutting
        properties.



     4] Appearance, color, and finish. Wind generators and wind towers shall remain
        painted or finished in the color or the finish that was originally applied by the
        manufacturer unless a different color is approved by the associated Board.

     5] Noise. Any WES shall demonstrate compliance with noise regulations contained
        in 250-7. 6 of the Penfield Town Code. The Planning Board shall have discretion
        in determining the data and information related to the WES noise generation.

     6] Signs. All signs, other than the manufacturer' s or installer' s identification,
        appropriate warning signs, or owner identification on a wind generator, wind
        tower, building, or other structure associated with a WES, visible from any public
        road are prohibited.




     7] Utility notification and interconnection. Any WES that connects to the electric
        utility shall comply with the requirements for interconnection and operation as set
        forth in the electric utility's service regulations applicable to wind power
        generation facilities.


     8] Meteorological Evaluation Tower (MET). Any METs shall be permitted under the
        same standards, requirements, and procedures as a WES.


e)   Application & Site Plan Review Requirements. Applications for WES, including
     materials for site plan review based on 250- 12 and Town of Penfield' s Design and
     Construction Specifications, shall additionally address the following:




                                           13
       11 The location of property lines, utilities, and permanent easements;

       2] The location of all structures on the subject property and all structures on any
          adjacent property within 200 feet of the subject property, together with the
          distance of these structures to the proposed WES.


       3] Adjacent land uses on contiguous parcels within 200 feet of the site boundary.

       4] The location, nature, and extent of any proposed fencing, landscaping, and/ or
          screening;


       5] The location and nature of proposed utility easements and access road, if
          applicable;




       6] Specification drawings of the WES structure, including the tower, base, and
          footings; drawings of the access road( s); and including an engineering analysis
          and certification of the tower;



       7] Certified plans and/ or data pertaining to the tower's structural safety and stability;

       8] Ground -level photos, renderings, 3- D models, and/ or other visual representations
          that depict the location and scale of the proposed WES on the site from
          neighboring properties and/ or public rights- of-way.


4) Accessory Use WES.-Accessory use WES are permitted in all zoning districts and are
   subject to the following:

   a) Location. Installation of any accessory WES shall only be permitted in the side or
      rear yards. On corner lots, a WES may not be located closer to the right-of-way than
      the principal structure.



   b) Number of WES. No more than two accessory wind towers per lot.

   c) Maximum height. Maximum height shall be up to 30 feet higher than the maximum
      building height in the zoning district where the proposed WES will be located.

   d) Setbacks. Wind towers for any Accessory Use WES shall be set back a distance equal
      to its total height plus an additional 20 feet from:



       1] Any public right-of-way;

       2] Any right of ingress or egress by another on the owner's property;

       3] Any overhead utility lines;




                                            14
         4] All property lines; and

         5] Any existing guy wire, anchor, or WES tower on the property.

   e)   Energy production. Energy production is limited to on- site use and up to 125% of on-
        site consumption.




   f) Site Plan. Site plan application is required for any accessory WES proposed in BN -R,
      LB, GB, MUD, PD, LI, and MR. The application may be reviewed administratively
        or referred to the Planning Board by the Town Engineer.

5) Principal Use WES. Principal Use WES are permitted through the issuance of a
  conditional use permit within the RA -2, RR -1, LB, GB, LI, PD, and MUD zoning
  districts, and are subject to the requirements set forth in Section 205- 13 for conditional
  use permits and site plan requirements in Section 250- 12, in addition to the requirements
  set forth in this Section.


   a) Applications for the installation of Principal Use WES shall be:


         1] Reviewed by the Planning Department for completeness and subject to a public
            hearing with the Town of Penfield Planning Board.

        2] Referred to the Monroe County Planning Department pursuant to General
           Municipal Law 239- m, 239- n, and/ or 239 -nn, if required.


   b) Application Requirements. Applications for Principal Use WES, including materials
        for site plan review based on 250- 12 and Town of Penfield' s Design and Construction
        Specifications, shall additionally include the following:

         1] Name, address, and contact information of the proposed or potential system
           installer and the owner and/ or operator of the Principal Use WES. Such
           information of the final system installer shall be submitted prior to the issuance of
           a building permit.

        2] Name, address, contact information, and signature of the project applicant, as well
           as all property owners, demonstrating their consent to the application and the use
           of the property for the SES.

        3] Nameplate Capacity of the WES as expressed in kW.

        4] Zoning district designation for the parcel( s) of land comprising the Facility Area.

        5] Map( s) of MSG 1- 4 soils and active agriculture lands on the parcel( s) comprising
           the Facility Area.

        6] Adjacent land uses on contiguous parcels within 200 feet of the site boundary.


                                             15
    7] Proposed changes to the site, including site grading, vegetation clearing and
       planting, the removal of any large trees, access roads, exterior lighting, signage,
       fencing, landscaping, and screening vegetation or structures.

    8] A screening and landscaping plan that specifies the locations, elevations, height,
       plant species, and/ or materials that will comprise the structures, landscaping,
       and/ or grading used to screen and/ or mitigate any adverse aesthetic effects of the
       system. To the extent practicable, screening shall include native perennial
       vegetation and foraging habitat beneficial to game birds, songbirds, and
       pollinators. The amount of landscaped screening will be determined at the
       reasonable discretion of the Board having jurisdiction and Town consultant( s).

   9] Erosion and sediment control and stormwater management plans prepared to NYS
          Department of Environmental Conservation standards, if applicable, and to such
          standards as may be established by the Planning Board.

    10]           A one- or three -line electrical diagram detailing the entire Principal Use
          WES layout, including the associated components, inverters, electrical
          interconnection methods, and utility meter, with all National Electrical Code -
          compliant disconnects and overcurrent devices. The diagram should describe the
          location and layout of all Battery Energy Storage System components, if
          applicable, and should include applicable setback and other bulk and area
          standards.



    11]           Provide preliminary specification sheets for all equipment that will be
          installed, including, but not limited to, the proposed WES turbines, system
          components, mounting systems, and inverters. All final equipment specification
          sheets shall be submitted prior to the issuance of a building permit.

   12]           A Property Operation and Maintenance Plan that describes continuing site
          maintenance, anticipated dual -use, and property upkeep, such as mowing and
          trimming.

   13]           A Decommissioning Plan that shall conform to the requirements set forth
          in the Town' s Design and Construction Specifications. The submitted
          Decommissioning Plan shall be signed by the owner and/ or operator of the
          Principal Use WES and be submitted by the applicant.

c) Conditional Use Permit and Site Plan Standards. A conditional use permit and site
  plan approval may be granted by the board of jurisdiction only after it has found that
  all the following standards and conditions have been satisfied:

   1] Lot size. The property on which the Principal Use WES is placed shall meet the
      lot size requirements of the underlying zoning district.




                                            16
2] Multiple lots. Where WES comprises multiple lots, regardless of ownership by an
   individual or multiple participating landowners, the lots shall be treated as a
   single project area for dimensional standards and requirements, including but not
   limited to lot size, lot coverage, and setbacks. Documentation of any agreements
   between property owner(s) and Tier 3 WES operator including, but not limited to,
   lease( s), memorandum of lease( s), or easement( s) shall be provided.


3] Height. Maximum height shall be 200 feet.


4] Setbacks. Principal Use WES shall meet the following setback requirements:

   a] A minimum setback of 1. 5 times the height of the hub from:


       i)   Any public right-of-way;

       ii) Any right of ingress or egress by another on the owner's property;

       iii)Any overhead utility lines;

       iv) All property lines; and

       v) Any existing guy wire, anchor, or WES tower on the property.

   b] A minimum setback of 1, 200 feet from any adjacent dwelling units.

5] Lot coverage calculation. The calculation for lot coverage shall include, but not be
  limited to, the following:

   a] Foundation systems, typically consisting of driven piles or monopoles or
      helical screws, with or without small concrete collars.


   b] All mechanical equipment of the WES, including any pad -mounted structure
      for batteries, switchboards, transformers, or storage cells.


   c] Access roads and sidewalks.


   d] Any other impervious surfaces as defined by NYSDEC.

6] Fencing Requirements. Perimeter fencing shall be provided around the Principal
   WES and may be up to 8 feet in height. Any transformers or electrical substations
   may be subject to the fencing requirements set forth in the National Electrical
  Code ( NEC).


7] Screening and buffering. The layout and screening of any ground -mounted
  components of the Principal Use WES shall be designed to minimize views from
  neighboring properties to the greatest extent practicable.



                                       17
   8] Lighting. Lighting of the Principal Use WES shall follow lighting requirements
         within § 250- 7. 17 and the Town of Penfield' s Design and Construction

         Specifications.


   9] Underground Requirements. All utility lines located outside of the Facility Area
      shall be placed underground to the extent feasible and as permitted by the serving
         utility, with the exception of the main service connection at the utility company
         right-of-way and any new interconnection equipment, including without
         limitation any poles, with new easements and right-of-way.

   10]          Vehicular Paths. Vehicular paths within the Facility Area shall be
         designed in compliance with NYS Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code
         requirements to ensure emergency access while minimizing the extent of
         impervious materials and soil compaction.

   11]          Signage. No signage or graphic content shall be displayed on the WES
         except for signage requiredby the National Electric Code ( NEC), the
         manufacturer' s name, equipment specification information, safety information,
         and 24-hour emergency contact information. Said information shall be depicted
         within an area of no more than 8 square feet.


d) Agricultural Resources. Any Principal Use WES installed on Prime Farmland or
  Farmland of Statewide Importance shall meet the requirements set forth below.


   1] The limit of disturbance shall not exceed 50 % of the area of Prime Farmland or
         Farmland of Statewide Importance of parcels included in the project area.


   2] Access roads are to be located along the edge of agricultural fields, in areas next
         to hedgerows and field boundaries, and in the nonagricultural portions of the site.


         a] The width of access roads across or along agricultural fields is to be no wider
            than 20 feet so as to minimize the loss of agricultural lands and comply with
            the State of New York fire access code.


         b] The surface of access roads to be constructed through agricultural fields
            should be level with the adjacent field surface where possible.


   3] Drainage and erosion control measures shall be designed to avoid or mitigate
         impacts to neighboring properties and protect the viability of nearby agricultural
         operations.



   4] To the maximum extent practicable, Principal Use WES located on Prime
      Farmland shall be constructed in accordance with the construction requirements
         of the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets.




                                          18
         e) Ownership Changes. If the owner or operator of the Principal Use WES changes or
            the owner of the property changes, the conditional use permit shall remain in effect,
            provided that the successor owner or operator assumes in writing all of the
            obligations of the conditional use permit, site plan approval, and decommissioning
            plan. A new owner or operator of the Principal Use WES shall notify the Building
            Department of such change in ownership or operator within 30 days of the ownership
            change.



D.   Geothermal Energy Systems ( GES)

     1) Intent. These regulations are intended to allow the installation of Geothermal Energy
        Systems in a manner that protects public health and safety, supports local, state, and
        federal renewable energy goals, and provides guidelines that will encourage the
        development and use of Geothermal Energy Systems in a way that promotes the health,
        safety, and welfare of the public and is compatible with surrounding land uses.

     2) Applicability

         a) This section applies to any GES installed and constructed after the effective date of
            this section. It applies to any upgrade, modification, or structural change that alters
            the physical size, electric generation capacity, location, or placement of an existing
            GES, except for repairs or in-kind replacement of equipment.


         b) Only Closed-loop GES that utilize heat transfer fluids as defined in 250- 2. 2 are
            permitted. Open -loop GES, as defined in 250- 2.2, are not permitted.

         c) GES in Irondequoit Bay may be permitted provided that water quality standards will
            be met, all required state and federal permits are obtained, and approval is issued by
            the Planning Board.

     3) General Requirements


         a) Location. Any Closed-loop GES is permitted as an accessory structure in all zoning
            districts


        b) Design standards. The following design standards shall apply to any GES.

             1] All components of GES, including pumps, borings, and loops, shall be in
                accordance with front, side, and rear setbacks.


            2] All vertical borings and loops shall be set back at least 10 feet from the
                foundation of any structure, either on or off-site.




                                                  19
             3] All vertical boring shall be limited to a depth of 150 feet from the surface
                elevation.



             4] Aboveground equipment associated with GES shall not be installed in the front
               yard of any lot or the side yard of a corner lot adjacent to a public right-of-way
               and shall meet all required setbacks for the applicable zoning district.

             5] GES shall not encroach on public drainage, utility, roadway, or trail easements.

             6] Geothermal heat pumps shall be screened to reduce noise levels and shall
               demonstrate compliance with noise regulations contained in 250- 7. 6 of the
               Penfield Town Code.


         c) Site Plan Application Required. When a GES is included as part of a proposed
            development that requires a site plan or the GES' area of disturbance triggers site plan
            approval set forth in 250, Planning Board review and approval shall be required. GES
            equipment outside of structures should be located and/ or screened in a way that
            minimizes views of the equipment.



         d) Abandonment. If a GES remains nonfunctional or inoperative for a continuous period

            of 12 months, the system shall be deemed to be abandoned and the following
            decommissioning actions are required.

             1] The heat pump and any external mechanical equipment shall be removed.

            2] Pipes or coils below the land surface shall be filled with grout to displace the heat
               transfer fluid. The heat transfer fluid shall be captured and disposed of in
               accordance with applicable regulations. The top of the pipe, coil, or boring shall
               be uncovered and grouted.


            3] All GES components shall be completely removed from any water body.

         e) Additional Permitting Required. Borings for vertical systems are subject to any and
            all required approvals and permits from the NYS Department of Environmental
            Conservation, NYS Department of Health, and any other applicable state or federal
            agencies.



E.   Battery Energy Storage System ( BESS)

     1) Intent. The intent of these regulations is to allow the installation of any Battery Energy
        Storage System ( BESS) in a manner that protects public health and safety, supports local,
        state, and federal renewable energy goals, and provides guidelines that will encourage the
        development and use of Battery Energy Storage Systems in a way that promotes the
        health, safety, and welfare of the public and is compatible with surrounding land uses.




                                                 20
2) Applicability. This section applies to any BESS installed and constructed after the
   effective date of this section. It applies to any upgrade, modification, or structural change
   that alters the physical size, electric generation capacity, location, or placement of an
   existing BESS, except for repairs or in-kind replacement of equipment.

3) General Requirements


   a) A building permit and an electrical permit shall be required for the installation of any
       BESS.


   b) Any BESS, BESS Equipment Building, and any other building(s) or structure( s) shall
      be designed, erected, and installed in accordance with all applicable provisions

      applicable to local, state, and federal regulations, including but not limited to, the
      NYS Uniform Code, NYS Energy Code, and the Penfield Town Code.

   c) Each BESS shall have a Battery Energy Storage Management System.

4) Accessory Use BESS. Accessory use BESS are permitted in all zoning districts and are
   subject to the following:

   a) Location. Installation of any accessory BESS on the\ exterior of a structure shall only
      be permitted in the side or rear yards. On corner lots, an externally mounted accessory
      BESS may not be located closer to the right-of-way than the principal structure.
      Installation of any accessory BESS within a structure, whether the structure is defined
      as a BESS Equipment Building or not, shall be permitted.

   b) Energy storage. Energy storage is limited to on- site use and up to 125% of monthly,

      on- site consumption within the limits set forth in the NYS Uniform Code, particularly
      the NYS Fire Code and NYS Building Code.

   c) Maximum height. Maximum height shall be 20 feet or the same as the height limit for
      accessory structures in the underlying zoning district, whichever is less.

   d) Site Plan. Site plan application is required for any accessory BESS proposed in BN -
      R, LB, GB, MUD, PD, LI, and MR. The application may be reviewed
      administratively or referred to the Planning Board by the Town Engineer.

   e) No more than one BESS Equipment Building per lot.

5) Principal Use BESS. Principal Use BESS are permitted through the issuance of a
  conditional use permit within the RA -2, RR -1, LB, GB, and LI zoning districts, and are
  subject to the requirements set forth in Section 205- 13 for conditional use permits and
  site plan requirements in Section §   250- 12, in addition to the requirements set forth in this




                                             21
Section.


a) Applications for the installation of Principal Use BESS shall be:


    1] Reviewed by the Planning Department for completeness and subject to a public
       hearing with the Town of Penfield Planning Board.

    2] Referred to the Monroe County Planning Department pursuant to General
         Municipal Law 239- m, 239- n, and/ or 239 -nn, if required.


b) Application Requirements. Applications for Principal Use BESS, including materials
   for site plan review based on § 250- 12 and Town of Penfield' s Design and
   Construction Specifications, shall additionally include the following:

    1] Name, address, and contact information of the proposed or potential system
         installer and the owner and/ or operator of the Principal Use BESS. Such
         information of the final system installer shall be submitted prior to the issuance of
         a building permit.

    2] Name, address, contact information, and signature of the project applicant, as well
         as all property owners, demonstrating their consent to the application and the use
         of the property for the BESS.

    3] Nameplate Capacity of the BESS as expressed in kW.

    4] Zoning district designation for the parcel( s) of land comprising the BESS.

    5] Adjacent land uses on contiguous parcels within 200 feet of the BESS.


    6] Proposed changes to the site, including site grading, vegetation clearing and
       planting, the removal of any large trees, access roads, exterior lighting, signage,
         fencing, landscaping, and screening vegetation or structures.

    7]   A screening and landscaping plan that specifies the locations, elevations, height,
         plant species, and/or materials that will comprise the structures, landscaping,
         and/ or grading used to screen and/ or mitigate any adverse aesthetic effects of the
         system.



    8] Erosion and sediment control and stormwater management plans prepared to NYS
         Department of Environmental Conservation standards, if applicable, and to such
         standards as may be established by the Planning Board.

    9] All preliminary specification sheets for equipment that will be installed as part of
       the proposed BESS prior to issuance of a building permit.




                                          22
10]          A Property Operation and Maintenance Plan that describes continuing site
      maintenance, anticipated dual -use, and property upkeep, such as mowing and
      trimming.

11]            Emergency Operations Plan. A copy of an approved Emergency
      Operations Plan shall be given to the BESS owner, the local fire department, and
      the Town Fire Marshal. A permanent copy shall also be placed in an approved
      location to be accessible to facility personnel, fire code officials, and emergency
      responders. The emergency operations plan shall include the following
      information:


      a] Procedures for safe shutdown, de -energizing, or isolation of equipment and
         systems under emergency conditions to reduce the risk of fire, electric shock,
         and personal injuries, and for safe start- up following cessation of emergency
           conditions.



      b]   Procedures for inspection and testing of associated alarms, interlocks, and
           controls.




      c] Procedures to be followed in response to notifications from the Battery
         Energy Storage Management System, when provided, that could signify
         potentially dangerous conditions, including shutting down equipment,
           summoning service and repair personnel, and providing agreed upon
           notification to fire department personnel for potentially hazardous conditions
           in the event of a system failure.


      d] Emergency procedures to be followed in case of fire, explosion, release of
         liquids or vapors, damage to critical moving parts, or other potentially
         dangerous conditions. Procedures can include sounding the alarm, notifying
         the fire department, evacuating personnel, de -energizing equipment, and
         controlling and extinguishing the fire.

      e] Response considerations similar to a safety data sheet ( SDS) that will address
         response safety concerns and extinguishment when an SDS is not required.

      17 Procedures for dealing with BESS equipment damaged in a fire or other
         emergency event, including maintaining contact information for personnel
         qualified to safely remove damaged BESS equipment from the facility.

      g] Other procedures as determined necessary by the board having jurisdiction to
           provide for the safety of occupants, neighboring properties, and emergency
           responders.




      h] Procedures and schedules for conducting drills of these procedures and for
         training local first responders on the contents of the plan and appropriate
           response procedures




                                         23
   12]          A Decommissioning Plan that shall conform to the requirements set forth
         in the Town' s Design and Construction Specifications. The submitted
         Decommissioning Plan shall be signed by the owner and/ or operator of the
         Principal Use BESS and be submitted by the applicant.

c) Conditional Use Permit and Site Plan Standards. A conditional use permit and site
  plan approval may be granted by the board of jurisdiction only after it has found that
  all the following standards and conditions have been satisfied:

   1] Lot size. The property on which the Principal Use BESS is placed shall meet the
      lot size requirements of the underlying zoning district.

   2] Multiple lots. Where BESS comprises multiple lots, regardless of ownership by
      an individual or multiple participating landowners, the lots shall be treated as a
      single project area for dimensional standards and requirements, including but not
      limited to lot size, lot coverage, and setbacks.


   3] Height. The Principal Use BESS shall comply with the building height limitations
      for principal structures of the underlying zoning district.

   4] Setbacks. Principal Use BESS shall meet the setback requirements of the
      underlying zoning district.

   5] BESS Equipment Building Design. BESS Equipment Building shall incorporate
      building materials and architectural design elements that are compatible with the
      principal uses in the underlying zoning district.

   6] Lot coverage calculation. The calculation for lot coverage shall include, but not be
      limited to, the following:

         a] Foundation systems.


         b] All mechanical equipment, including any pad -mounted structures or
            equipment.



         c] Access roads and sidewalks.


         d] Any other impervious surfaces as defined by NYSDEC.

   7] Fencing Requirements. Fencing shall be provided around the perimeter of the
      BESS and shall comply with the fencing requirements set forth in the National
      Electrical Code ( NEC).




                                          24
   8] Screening and buffering. The layout and screening of any ground -mounted
         components of the Principal Use BESS shall be designed to minimize views from
         neighboring properties to the greatest extent practicable.

   9] Lighting. Lighting of the Principal Use BESS shall follow lighting requirements
         within § 250- 7. 17   and the Town of Penfield' s Design and Construction
         Specifications.


   10]          Underground Requirements. All utility lines located outside of the Facility
         Area shall be placed underground to the extent feasible and as permitted by the
         serving utility, with the exception of the main service connection at the utility
         company right-of-way and any new interconnection equipment, including without
         limitation any poles, with new easements and right-of-way.

   11]          Vehicular Paths. Vehicular paths within the Facility Area shall be
         designed in compliance with NYS Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code
         requirements to ensure emergency access while minimizing the extent of
         impervious materials and soil compaction.


   12]          Signage. No signage or graphic content shall be displayed on the BESS
         except for signage requiredby the National Electric Code ( NEC), the
         manufacturer' s name, equipment specification information, safety information,
         and 24-hour emergency contact information. Said information shall be depicted
         within an area of no more than 8 square feet.


d) Agricultural Resources. Any Principal Use BESS installed on Prime Farmland or
  Farmland of Statewide Importance shall meet the requirements set forth below.


   1] The limit of disturbance shall not exceed 50 % of the area of Prime Farmland or
         Farmland of Statewide Importance of parcels included in the project area.


   2] Access roads are to be located along the edge of agricultural fields, in areas next
         to hedgerows and field boundaries, and in the nonagricultural portions of the site.


         a] The width of access roads across or along agricultural fields is to be no wider
            than 20 feet so as to minimize the loss of agricultural lands and comply with
            the State of New York fire access code.


         b] The surface of access roads to be constructed through agricultural fields
            should be level with the adjacent field surface where possible.


   3] Drainage and erosion control measures shall be designed to avoid or mitigate
         impacts to neighboring properties and protect the viability of nearby agricultural
         operations.




                                            25
             4] To the maximum extent practicable, Principal Use BESS located on Prime
                Farmland shall be constructed in accordance with the construction requirements
                of the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets.


         e) Ownership Changes. If the owner or operator of the Principal Use BESS changes or
            the owner of the property changes, the conditional use permit shall remain in effect,
            provided that the successor owner or operator assumes in writing all of the
            obligations of the conditional use permit, site plan approval, and decommissioning
            plan. A new owner or operator of the Principal Use BESS shall notify the Building
            Department of such change in ownership or operator within 30 days of the ownership
            change.



F.   Electric Vehicle Charging Stations ( EVCS)

      1) Intent. Electric Vehicle Charging Stations (EVCS) encourage the use of a renewable and
         non-polluting energy source. These regulations support local, state, and federal renewable
         energy goals and provide guidelines that will encourage the development and use of
         EVCS in a way that promotes the health, safety, and welfare of the public and is
         compatible with surrounding land uses.

     2) Applicability. This section applies to any EVCS installed and constructed after the
        effective date of this section. It applies to any upgrade, modification, or structural change
        that alters the physical size, electric generation capacity, location, or placement of an
        existing EVCS, except for repairs or in-kind replacement of equipment.

     3) General Requirements


         a) All installations must comply with the National Electrical Code and all applicable
            sections of the NYS Uniform Code and any other state regulations.

         b) Any EVCS must be located adjacent to a driveway, parking space, and/ or inside a
            garage.




         c) Components for an EVCS may encroach up to 36 inches into a required side or rear
            setback of the underlying zoning district.

         d) All EVCS shall be located in a way that does not obstruct sidewalks, paths, or other
            pedestrian infrastructure.


         e) All EVCS that are publicly accessible, including on -street parking, municipal lots, or
            any other parking locations that permit public access shall support all vehicle makes
            and models.




                                                  26
   f) Any EVCS that will have commercial messaging or advertising, including static or
      video -based, shall be subject to a site plan review by the Planning Board and are
      subject to the following:

       1] Photometric plan submission required for any light -producing signage.

       2] Audio or other sound production shall be prohibited.


4) Tier 1 EVCS. Tier 1 EVCS are permitted in all zoning districts and are subject to the
  following:

   a) For Single-family residences, free- standing external Tier 1 EVCS are permitted to
      encroach into the front setback or front and side setback on a corner lot.


   b) Tier 1 EVCS in BN -R, GB, LB, LI, LLD, MR, MUD, PD and TH. Any proposed Tier
      1 EVCS installation that prohibits the parking of non -electric charging vehicles in a
      parking spot must submit an overall parking layout with a building permit to
      demonstrate that all applicable parking standards will be met ( e.g., ADA parking
      spaces, total number of spaces, etc.).



5) Tier 2 EVCS. Tier 2 EVCS are permitted through the issuance of an electrical or building
   permit in all zoning districts and are subject to the following:

   a) Any person installing a Tier 2 EVCS must, prior to installation, notify the utility
      providing electric power to the property.


   b) For Single-family residences, free- standing external Tier 2 EVCS are permitted to
      encroach into the front setback or front and side setback on a corner lot.


   c) Tier 2 EVCS in BN -R, GB, LB, LI, LLD, MR, MUD, PD and TH.


       1] Each Tier 2 EVCS shall include vehicle impact protection, such as, but not
          limited to bollards or similar structures.


       2] Site Plan Requirements. When a site plan is required for new development or

          redevelopment, the location of any proposed Tier 2 EVCS must be included in the
          site plan.




       3] Any proposed Tier 2 EVCS installation that prohibits the parking of non -electric
          charging vehicles in a parking spot must submit an overall parking layout with a
          building permit to demonstrate that all applicable parking standards will be met
           e. g., ADA parking spaces, total number of spaces, etc.).




                                            27
6) Tier 3 EVCS. Tier 3 EVCS are permitted through the issuance of a conditional use permit
  within the RA -2, RR -1, LB, GB, LI, LLD, MR, MUD, PD, and TH zoning districts, and
  are subject to the requirements set forth in Section 205- 13 for conditional use permits and
  site plan requirements in Section 250- 12, in addition to the requirements set forth in this
  Section.


   a) Applications for the installation of Tier 3 EVCS shall be:


       1] Reviewed by the Planning Department for completeness and subject to a public
          hearing with the Town of Penfield Planning Board.

       2] Referred to the Monroe County Planning Department pursuant to General
          Municipal Law 239- m, 239- n, and/ or 239 -nn, if required.


   b) Application Requirements. Applications for Tier 3 EVCS, including materials for site
      plan review based on § 250- 12 and Town of Penfield' s Design     and Construction

      Specifications, shall additionally include the following:

       1] Provide preliminary specification sheets for all equipment that will be installed as
          part of the proposed Tier 3 EVCS prior to issuance of the building permit.

       2] Erosion and sediment control and stormwater management plans prepared to NYS
         Department of Environmental Conservation standards, if applicable, and to such
         standards as may be established by the Planning Board.

       3] Lot coverage calculation. The calculation for lot coverage shall include, but not be
         limited to, the following:

             a] Foundation systems.


          b] All mechanical equipment, including any pad -mounted structures or
               equipment.



          c] Access roads and sidewalks.


          d] Any other impervious surfaces as defined by NYSDEC.

      4] Parking lot design. Any proposed Tier 3 EVCS installation that prohibits the
         parking of non -electric charging vehicles in a parking spot must submit an overall
         parking layout to demonstrate that all applicable parking standards will be met
          e. g., ADA parking spaces, total number of spaces, etc.).

      5] Vehicle impact protection. Each Tier 3 EVCS shall include vehicle impact
         protection, such as, but not limited to bollards or similar structures.




                                           28
             6] Lighting. Lighting of the Tier 3 EVCS shall follow lighting requirements within §
                250- 7. 17 and the Town of Penfield' s Design and Construction Specifications.
                Photometric plan required with application.


             7] Underground Requirements. All utility lines located on the property shall be
                placed underground to the extent feasible and as permitted by the serving utility,
                with the exception of the main service connection at the utility company right-of-
                way and any new interconnection equipment, including without limitation any
                poles, with new easements and right- of-way.


             8] A Decommissioning Plan that shall conform to the requirements set forth in the
                Town' s Design and Construction Specifications. The submitted Decommissioning
                Plan shall be signed by the owner and/ or operator of the Tier 3 EVCS and be
                submitted by the applicant.

         c) Installation. Any person installing a Tier 3 EVCS must, prior to installation, notify the
            utility providing electric power to the property.

G. Enforcement. Any violations of these regulations shall be subject to the same enforcement
   requirements, including the civil and criminal penalties, provided for in Chapter 250, Zoning
    and Land Use, as amended or changed.


H. Severability. The invalidity of any word, section, clause, paragraph, sentence, part, or
   provision of this Article shall not affect the validity of any other part of this Article, which
    can be given effect without such part or parts.


Section 6. Amend Chapter 250, Article V, to Add a Renewable Energy Systems Reference
to Each Zoning District.

Each zoning district contained in Chapter 250, Article V District Regulations, the following
additions will be made to Section 250- 5. 1 ( Single- family Residential Districts), 250- 5. 2

 Multiple Residence District), 250- 5. 3 ( Townhouse Dwelling District), 250- 5. 4 (Planned
Development District), 250- 5. 5 ( Business Non -Retail District), 250- 5. 6 ( Limited Business
District), 250- 5. 7 ( General Business District), 250- 5. 8 ( Limited Industrial Development), 250-
5. 9 ( LaSalle' s Landing Development District), 25- 5. 10 ( Four Corners District), 250- 5. 11
Mobile/Manufactured Home Parks District) and 250- 5. 12 ( Mixed -Use Development District).


5. 1 H. For projects involving the installation of renewable energy systems, please refer to the
regulations contained in Section 250- 15. 11.


5. 2 E. For projects involving the installation of renewable energy systems, please refer to the
regulations contained in Section 250- 15. 11.


5. 3 E. For projects involving the installation of renewable energy systems, please refer to the
regulations contained in Section 250- 15. 11.




                                                  29
5. 4 E. For projects involving the installation of renewable energy systems, please refer to the
regulations contained in Section 250- 15. 11.


5. 5 F. For projects involving the installation of renewable energy systems, please refer to the
regulations contained in Section 250- 15. 11.


5. 6 F. For projects involving the installation of renewable energy systems, please refer to the
regulations contained in Section 250- 15. 11.


5. 7 F. For projects involving the installation of renewable energy systems, please refer to the
regulations contained in Section 250- 15. 11.


5. 8 E. For projects involving the installation of renewable energy systems, please refer to the
regulations contained in Section 250- 15. 11.


5. 9 G. For projects involving the installation of renewable energy systems, please refer to the
regulations contained in Section 250- 15. 11.


5. 10 L. For projects involving the installation of renewable energy systems, please refer to the
regulations contained in Section 250- 15. 11.


5. 11 N. For projects involving the installation of renewable energy systems, please refer to the
regulations contained in Section 250- 15. 11.


5. 12 K. For projects involving the installation of renewable energy systems, please refer to the
regulations contained in Section 250- 15. 11.


Section 7. Severability


The invalidity of any word, section, clause, paragraph, sentence, part, or provision of this Local
Law shall not affect the validity of any other part of this Local Law, which can be given effect
without such part or parts.



Section 8. Effective Date


This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the Secretary of State of
New York as provided by law.




                                                 30
