                           Town of Poughkeepsie
                                     Planning Department
1 Overocker Road
Poughkeepsie, NY 12603                                                                             845-485-3657 Phone


August 13, 2025
M. Welti, Director of Municipal Development

D.1.    ZONING CODE AMENDMENT – BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS (BESS)
        Respond to a referral from the Town Board for a recommendation on a proposed local law to amend
        Chapter 210, entitled “Zoning”, to add provisions related to Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS).


On August 6, 2025 the Town Board adopted Resolution 8:6 - #2 of 2025 which, among other things, referred a proposed
local law regarding battery energy storage systems (BESS) to the Planning Board for an advisory recommendation
pursuant to §210-154. The resolution, the proposed local law, and the SEQR Full EAF Part 1 are attached. The resolution
also set a Town Board Public Hearing for September 3, 2025.

The proposed local law was prepared by the Code Update Committee. It amends the Town of Poughkeepsie Zoning Law
to allow battery energy storage systems (BESS) in the Town of Poughkeepsie and to provide regulations for such use.
BESS will be classified as Tier 1, which will be permitted as an accessory use in all zoning districts in the Town; Tier 2,
which will be permitted as an accessory use in all Business and Commercial Districts and all Town Center Districts; Tier
3, which will be permitted as an accessory use in the Highway Business (B-H), Shopping Center Business (B-SC),
Institutional (IN), Light Industrial (I-L), Heavy Industrial (I-H), and Quarry (Q) Districts; and Tier 4, which will be
allowed as an accessory use and a principal use in the Heavy Industrial (I-H) Zoning District.

Staff recommends that the Planning Board convey its advisory recommendation to the Town Board regarding adoption of the
proposed Zoning Code amendment related to battery energy storage systems (BESS) as follows:

“I move that the Planning Board convey a [positive or neutral or negative] recommendation to the Town Board
regarding adoption of the proposed local law to amend Chapter 210, entitled “Zoning”, to add provisions related to
Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS).”




                                                  www.townofpoughkeepsie.com                               Page 1 of 1


RESOLUTION 8:6 # ol. OF 2025

WHEREAS, the Town Board finds that it is in the best interest of the Town of
Poughkeepsie to amend the Town Code, Chapter 210, “Zoning,” to include provisions for
Battery Energy Storage Systems; now therefore

BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town Board of the Town of Poughkeepsie does hereby set
the 3rd day of September, 2025 at 7:00 p.m. at the Town Hall, Town of Poughkeepsie, One
Overocker Road, Poughkeepsie, NY, as the time, date and place of a public hearing at which all
parties in interest and citizens may be heard as to whether or not the Town Board of the Town of
Poughkeepsie should adopt the proposed Local Law to Amend Chapter 210 of the Code Entitled
‘Zoning’ to include provisions for Battery Energy Storage Systems (the “Local Law”) annexed
hereto; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Board of the Town of Poughkeepsie does
hereby waive the verbatim reading of said proposed Local Law and does hereby direct the Town
Clerk to spread the proposed Local Law across the record as if it had been read aloud; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that pursuant to the provisions of SEQRA, the Town
Board determines that the adoption of the proposed Local Law is a Type I action (see, 6 NYCRR
617.4{b][2]), and determines that the Town Board is the only involved agency, and therefore
designates itself lead agency for the environmental review of the proposed Local Law, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Board accepts the attached Full
Environmental Assessment Form (Full EAF) Part 1 to commence the SEQRA process; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Clerk is hereby directed to post a Notice

of Public Hearing in the Town’s official newspaper, the Poughkeepsie Journal, and on the



bulletin board maintained by the Town Clerk in the Town Hall not less than ten (10) days prior
to said public hearing; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Clerk is hereby directed to refer a copy
of this resolution, the annexed proposed Local Law, and the Notice of Public Hearing to the
municipal clerk of each abutting municipality not less than ten (10) days prior to the public
hearing and to refer a copy of this resolution, the annexed proposed local law, the Full EAF Part
1, and the Notice of Public Hearing to the Dutchess County Department of Planning and
Economic Development for advisory review in accordance with §239-m of the General
Municipal Law, and to distribute a copy of this resolution, the annexed proposed local law, the
Full EAF Part 1, and the Notice of Public Hearing to the Town of Poughkeepsie Planning Board

for its review and recommendation pursuant to Town Code §210-154. 2
pata: HVQUSt 6 WS
Moved: Boxana Lave
Seconded: Kebe (Ca Edwar.da

Motion passes/ fails: Ayes 7 Nays O
ES/aap —
t-7/29/2025
m-8/6/2025

NAY ABSTAIN
PRESENT/ABSENT Councilman Reuter
PRESENT/ABSENT Councilwoman Laird
PRESENT/ABSENT Councilwoman Burger
PRESENT/ABSENT Councilman Cifone
PRESENT/ABSENT Councilman Sharpe
PRESENT/ABSENT Councilwoman Shershin
PRESENT/ABSENT Supervisor Edwards

Miskkisk2
HELL
|

G:\mNegal\r\2025\August\Aug 6\BESS Set Date Local Law.docx



BESS Draft 7_22_2025_v.2

7s New York State Department of State

L ocal L aw F l l U ng Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza

99 Washington Avenue

Albany, NY 12231-0001

dos.ny.gov

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)

Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

TOWN OF POUGHKEEPSIE
LOCAL LAW NO. __ (PROPOSED) OF THE YEAR 2024

A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 210 OF THE CODE OF THE TOWN OF
POUGHKEEPSIE ENTITLED ZONING” TO INCLUDE PROVISIONS FOR
BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS

BE IT ENACTED by the Town Board of the Town of Poughkeepsie as follows:

SECTION 1. LEGISLATIVE INTENT

This local law amends the Town of Poughkeepsie Zoning Law to allow Battery Energy Storage
Systems (BESS) in the Town of Poughkeepsie and to provide regulations for such use. BESS will
be classified as Tier 1, which will be permitted as an accessory use in all zoning districts in the
Town; Tier 2, which will be permitted as an accessory use in all Business and Commercial Districts
and all Town Center Districts; Tier 3, which will be permitted as an accessory use in the Highway
Business (B-H), Shopping Center Business (B-SC), Institutional (IN), Light Industrial (I-L),
Heavy Industrial (I-H), and Quarry (Q) Districts; and Tier 4, which will be allowed as an accessory
use and a principal use in the Heavy Industrial (I-H) Zoning District. The regulations are designed
to protect the health, safety, and welfare of Town residents and to bring the Town s Zoning Law
into conformance with Greenway Connections: Greenway Compact Program and Guides for
Dutchess County Communities” pursuant to Chapter 18 of the Town Code. The proposed
regulations are consistent with the recommendations of the Town s 2021 Comprehensive Plan.

SECTION 2. APPLICATION
This local law shall apply within the Town of Poughkeepsie.

SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY

The invalidity of any word, section, clause, paragraph, sentence, part, or provision of this Local
Law shall not affect the validity of any other part of this Local Law which can be given effect
without such part or parts.

SECTION 4. AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE II OF THE ZONING LAW ENTITLED
“DEFINITIONS AND WORD USAGE”

§ 4.1. Section 210-9 of the Code is hereby amended by the addition of the following new


BESS Draft 7_22_2025_v.2

definitions:
ANSI
American National Standards Institute.
BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

An electronic system that protects energy storage systems from operating outside their safe
operating parameters and disconnects electrical power to the energy storage system or places
it in a safe condition if potentially hazardous temperatures or other conditions are detected.

BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM

One or more devices, assembled together, capable of storing energy for the purpose of
supplying electrical energy at a future time. This definition excludes batteries used in consumer
products, stand-alone 12-volt automobile batteries, electric motor vehicles, and batteries
associated with a solar or wind energy system that is a public utility. Battery energy storage
systems are classified into four tiers based on the aggregate rated energy capacity and/or power
output, as follows:

A. Tier 1 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity of 80
kilowatt-hours (kWh) or less.

B. Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity greater than
80 kWh but not more than 600 kWh.

C. Tier 3 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity greater than
600 kWh and not exceeding either two (2) megawatts (MW) of power output, or eight
(8) megawatt-hours (MWh) of energy storage capacity, whichever threshold is reached
first.

D. Tier 4 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity greater than
either two (2) MW of power output, or eight (8) MWh of energy storage capacity.

CELL

The basic electrochemical unit, characterized by an anode and a cathode, used to receive, store,
and deliver electrical energy.
COMMISSIONING

A systematic process that provides documented confirmation that a battery energy storage
system functions according to the intended design criteria and complies with applicable code
requirements.

DEDICATED-USE BUILDING

A building that is built for the primary intention of housing battery energy storage system
equipment, is classified as Group F-1 occupancy as defined in the New York State Uniform
Code, and complies with the following:

A. The building’s only use is battery energy storage, energy generation, and other
electrical grid-related operations.

B. No other occupancy types are permitted in the building.


BESS Draft 7_22_2025_v.2

C. Personnel in areas containing battery energy storage systems are limited to those who
operate, maintain, service, test, and repair the battery energy storage system and other
energy systems.

D. Administrative and support personnel are permitted in areas within the buildings that
do not contain battery energy storage system, provided the following:

(1) The areas do not occupy more than 10 percent of the building area of the story in
which they are located.

(2) A means of egress is provided from the administrative and support use areas to the
public way that does not require occupants to traverse through areas containing
battery energy storage systems or other energy system equipment.

ENERGY CODE

The New York State Energy Conservation Construction Code adopted pursuant to Article 11
of the Energy Law, as currently in effect and as hereafter amended from time to time.

NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED TESTING LABORATORY (NRTL)

AUS. Department of Labor designation recognizing a private sector organization to perform
certification for certain products to ensure that they meet the requirements of both the
construction and general industry OSHA electrical standards.

NON-DEDICATED-USE BUILDING

All buildings that contain a battery energy storage system and do not comply with the
dedicated-use building requirements.
UNIFORM CODE

The New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code adopted pursuant to Article 18
of the Executive Law, as currently in effect and as hereafter amended from time to time.

SECTION 5. AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE V OF THE ZONING LAW ENTITLED
“TOWN CENTER DISTRICT REGULATIONS”

§ 5.1. Section 210-22D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (2), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(2) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 5.2. Section 210-23D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (2), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(2) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 5.3. Section 210-24C of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (6), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(6) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2, subject to § 210-54.1.


BESS Draft 7_22_2025_v.2

§ 5.4. Section 210-25D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (2), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(2) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 5.5. Section 210-26D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (2), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(2) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 5.6. Section 210-27D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (2), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(2) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 5.7. Section 210-28D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (2), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(2) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 5.8. Section 210-29D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (2), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(2) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 5.9. Section 210-30B(27) of the Code is hereby amended by deleting it in its entirety and
replacing it with the following new § 210-30B(27).

Accessory uses as approved by the Town Board as part of a development master plan; or
accessory outdoor restaurant dining facilities subject to § 210-102 or accessory sidewalk
seating and tables for patrons subject to § 210-104.1 and subject to site plan approval by
the Planning Board; or Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2, subject to § 210-54.1 and
site plan approval by the Planning Board.

SECTION 6. AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE VI OF THE ZONING LAW ENTITLED
“BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS”

§ 6.1. Section 210-33D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (2), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(2) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 6.2. Section 210-34D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (2), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(2) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2, subject to § 210-54.1.


BESS Draft 7_22_2025_v.2

§ 6.3. Section 210-35D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (2), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(2) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2 and Tier 3, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 6.4. Section 210-36D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (2), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(2) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2 and Tier 3, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 6.5. Section 210-37D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (2), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(2) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 6.6. Section 210-38D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (3), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(3) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2 and Tier 3, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 6.7. Section 210-39D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (3), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.

(3) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2 and Tier 3, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 6.8. Section 210-40C of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new special
permitted use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (4), and the remaining existing
subsections shall be renumbered sequentially:

(4) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 4, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 6.9. Section 210-40D of the Code is hereby amended by deleting the introductory sentence in
its entirety and replacing it with the following new introductory sentence.

Accessory uses shall be as follows (Note: “*” designates a use which is subject to site plan
approval by the Planning Board, and “*” designates a use which is subject to both special use
permit and site plan approval by the Planning Board):

§ 6.10. Section 210-40D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
uses to the existing list alphabetically as subsections (3) and (4), and the remaining existing
subsections shall be renumbered sequentially.

(3) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2 and Tier 3, subject to § 210-54.1.
(4) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 4, subject to § 210-54.1.

§ 6.11. Section 210-41D of the Code is hereby amended by adding the following new accessory
use to the existing list alphabetically as subsection (2), and the remaining existing subsections
shall be renumbered sequentially.


BESS Draft 7_22_2025_v.2

(2) * Battery Energy Storage System, Tier 2 and Tier 3, subject to § 210-54.1.

SECTION 7. AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE VII OF THE ZONING LAW ENTITLED
“SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS”

§ 7.1. A new § 210-54.1 entitled “Battery Energy Storage Systems” is hereby inserted into the
Code of the Town of Poughkeepsie.

§ 210-54.1 Battery Energy Storage Systems

A. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the public health, safety, and welfare by
regulating the installation and use of battery energy storage systems, with the following
objectives:

(1) To provide a regulatory scheme for the location, construction, operation, and
decommissioning of battery energy storage systems consistent with best practices and
safety protocols;

(2) To ensure that battery energy storage systems will not adversely impact nearby land uses;

(3) To mitigate the impacts of battery energy storage systems on environmental resources such
as agricultural lands, forests, wildlife, wetlands, and other protected resources; and

(4) To encourage the transition from polluting fossil fuel energy to clean renewable energy by
allowing for the storage of variable renewable energy sources, like wind and solar, while
providing for a more reliable and efficient power grid.

B. Applicability.
(1) The requirements of this section shall apply to all battery energy storage systems permitted,

installed, or modified after the effective date of this section, excluding general maintenance
and repair.

(2) Battery energy storage systems that have a valid building permit or have been constructed
or installed prior to the effective date of this section shall not be required to meet the
requirements of this section.

(3) At the discretion of the Director of Municipal Development, modifications to, retrofits, or
replacements of an existing battery energy storage system may be deemed exempt from
this section.

C. General Requirements.

(1) A building permit and an electrical permit shall be required for the installation of all battery
energy storage systems.

(2) All battery energy storage systems, all dedicated-use buildings, and all other buildings or
structures that (a) contain or are otherwise associated with a battery energy storage system
and (b) are subject to the Uniform Code and/or the Energy Code, shall be designed, erected,
and installed in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Uniform Code, the Energy
Code, and any referenced codes, regulations, and industry standards incorporated therein,
as well as all applicable provisions of the Town Code. In the event of any conflict between
this section and any applicable state law or regulations, the state law or regulation shall
govern.


BESS Draft 7_22_2025_v.2

D. Permitting requirements for Tier 1 battery energy storage systems. Tier | battery energy
storage systems shall be permitted as an accessory use in all zoning districts subject to the
following limitations and requirements.

(1) Tier 1 battery energy storage systems shall be shown on plans submitted for the building
permit and electrical permit applications for the building in which the system will be
located, or for the property on which it will be installed, and shall not exceed the following
aggregate energy capacity limits:

(a) Forty kWh within utility closets and storage or utility spaces.

(b) Eighty kWh in attached or detached garages and detached accessory structures.
(c) Eighty kWh on exterior walls.

(d) Eighty kWh outdoors on the ground.

E. Permitting requirements for Tier 2 and Tier 3 battery energy storage systems. Tier 2 and Tier
3 battery energy storage systems, where permitted in accordance with Articles V and VI of this
chapter, shall be allowed as accessory uses, subject to following limitations and requirements.

(1) Tier 2 and Tier 3 battery energy storage systems shall require site plan approval by the
Planning Board.

(2) The installation of Tier 2 and Tier 3 battery energy storage systems shall be prohibited in
a front yard and shall be screened from adjacent properties to the satisfaction of the
Planning Board.

(3) Tier 2 and Tier 3 battery energy storage systems shall be permitted only on properties that
meet the minimum lot size required for the applicable zoning district. All such systems
shall comply with the principal structure setback requirements of the district, except that
no portion of a Tier 3 battery energy system shall be located closer than 100 feet to the
property line of any lot that is used or zoned for residential purposes.

(4) The maximum height of any outdoor Tier 2 and Tier 3 battery energy storage system shall
be eight (8) feet.

(5) Tier 2 and Tier 3 battery energy storage systems shall be accompanied by a fire safety
compliance plan, which shall document and verify that the system and its associated
controls and safety systems comply with the Uniform Code.

(6) Each individual structure comprising an outdoor Tier 2 battery energy storage system shall
not exceed 100 square feet in footprint.

(7) The Planning Board may require that outdoor Tier 2 and Tier 3 battery energy storage
systems be installed on a concrete pad with a minimum height of six (6) inches and edged
with a lip, or as otherwise required by the Town Engineer, to ensure structural stability or
to prevent contamination of groundwater and surface water during fire suppression.

F. Permitting requirements for Tier 4 battery energy storage systems. Tier 4 battery energy
storage systems shall be permitted as an accessory use or a principal use in the I-H Zoning
District subject to issuance of a special use permit and site plan approval by the Planning Board
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, and the following provisions.


BESS Draft 7_22_2025_v.2

(1) Site plan application. In addition to the requirements set forth in Article XIII of this chapter,
an application for site plan approval for a Tier 4 battery energy storage system shall include
the following:

(a) The location and boundaries of existing natural features including: individual trees with
a diameter at breast height (dbh) of eight (8) inches or greater within any area where
clearing will occur; lakes, ponds, watercourses, wetlands, floodplains, aquifers; and
drainage and runoff patterns.

(b) The proposed location of the battery energy storage system and required setbacks in
accordance with § 210-54.1F(2)(b); the location and details of exterior lighting,
signage, fencing, and access roads; any proposed changes to the site’s landscape,
including grading, vegetation clearing, and the removal of any trees with a dbh of eight
(8) inches or greater; and a screening and landscaping plan.

(c) The name, address, and contact information of the proposed or potential system
installer, and of the owner and/or operator of the battery energy storage system.

(d) The name, address, phone number, and signature of the applicant, as well as all property
owners demonstrating their consent to the application and to the use of the property for
the battery energy storage system.

(e) A fire safety compliance plan documenting and verifying that the system and its
associated controls and safety systems comply with the Uniform Code. The Town shall
require independent consultant review of the fire safety compliance plan.

(f) An operation and maintenance manual describing the maintenance and management of
the battery energy storage system and the property. The manual shall include
information related to the design, construction, installation, testing and commissioning
of the system, and shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Uniform Code.

(g) An emergency operations plan, with copies provided to the system owner, the Fire
District in which the property is located, and the Town Engineer or Building Inspector.
A permanent copy shall also be placed in an approved location accessible to facility
personnel, fire code officials, and emergency responders. The plan shall include, at a
minimum, the following information:

(i) Procedures for safe shutdown, de-energizing, or isolation of equipment and systems
under emergency conditions to reduce the risk of fire, electric shock, and personal
injuries, and for safe re-start following cessation of emergency conditions.

(ii) Procedures for inspection and testing of alarms, interlocks, and control systems.

(iii)Procedures for responding to alerts or notifications from the battery energy storage
management system, when provided, that may indicate potentially hazardous
conditions, including shutting down equipment, summoning service and repair
personnel, and notifying the Fire Department in accordance with agreed-upon
protocols in the event of a system failure.

(iv)Emergency response procedures in the event of a fire, explosion, release of liquids
or vapors, damage to critical moving parts, or other potentially hazardous
conditions. These may include sounding alarms, notifying the Fire Department,


BESS Draft 7_22_2025_v.2

evacuating personnel, de-energizing equipment, and controlling and extinguishing
the fire.

(v) Safety response information similar to a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) to address safety
concerns and extinguishment if an SDS is not otherwise required.

(vi)Procedures for safely handling and removing damaged battery energy storage
system equipment from the facility, including contact information for qualified

personnel.

(vii) Any additional emergency procedures deemed necessary by the Town to
protect the safety of facility personnel, emergency responders, and neighboring
properties.

(viii) Procedures and schedules for conducting emergency drills and for training
local first responders on the contents of the plan and appropriate emergency
response protocols.

(h) A Decommissioning Plan, in accordance with subsection F(5) herein.

(2) Special use permit standards. In addition to the special use permit standards set forth in
Article XTII.1 of this chapter, the following supplementary standards shall apply to all Tier
4 battery energy storage systems, whether accessory or principal uses, unless otherwise
specified below:

(a) The minimum lot area for a Tier 4 battery energy storage system shall be three (3)
acres. This requirement supersedes the minimum lot area requirement for the I-H
District.

(b) Setbacks.

(i) All dedicated-use buildings and equipment structures associated with a Tier 4
battery energy storage system shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from all
property lines, unless the property line abuts or is across the street from a residential
zoning district or a property in residential use, in which case the setback shall be a
minimum of 200 feet. However, the required setback may be reduced to a minimum
of 50 feet where the adjacent lot contains a substation to which the battery energy
storage facility will be directly connected.

(ii) Setbacks shall be measured in a straight line from the nearest edge of the dedicated-
use building or equipment structure to the nearest property line.

(iii) When the property line abuts any public recreational lands or abuts or is across the
street from a residential zoning district or a property in residential use, the area of
the setback within 75 feet of the adjoining property line shall be landscaped or left
in a natural undisturbed condition, as determined by the Planning Board. Any
required landscaping shall consist of a mixture of evergreen and deciduous
plantings as determined and approved by the Planning Board. Roads, pathways,
and sidewalks providing access through the setback to the utility structure(s) are
permitted, subject to Planning Board approval.

(c) Fencing. Unless housed in a dedicated-use building, Tier 4 battery energy storage
systems and all associated mechanical equipment shall be enclosed by a fence with a


BESS Draft 7_22_2025_v.2

minimum height of seven (7) feet with a self-locking gate to prevent unauthorized
access. Fencing, security barriers, and other enclosures shall not interfere with
ventilation or exhaust ports. All access gates shall be a minimum of 12 feet wide and
accessible to the Fire Department.

(d) Screening and Visibility. Views of Tier 4 battery energy storage systems shall be

screened year-round, to the maximum extent practicable, from public roads and
adjacent properties through landscaping (preferred method), grading, fencing, or other
screening methods that harmonize with the character of the property and the
surrounding area. Screening shall not interfere with the operation, ventilation or
exhaust ports, or fire safety of the system. A covenant providing for the ongoing
maintenance of any required screening shall be provided by the applicant.

(e) Concrete pad. The Planning Board may require that Tier 4 battery energy storage

(f)

systems be installed on a concrete pad with a minimum height of six (6) inches and
edged with a lip, or as otherwise required by the Town Engineer, to ensure structural
stability or to prevent contamination of groundwater and surface water during fire
suppression.

Access. Vehicular access within the site shall be designed to minimize impervious
materials and soil compaction while complying with any applicable emergency access
or safety requirements.

(g) Utility lines and electrical circuitry. All on-site utility lines shall be placed underground

to the extent feasible and as permitted by the serving utility, with the exception of the
main service connection at the utility company right-of-way and any new
interconnection equipment including, without limitation, utility poles.

(h) Signage.

(i)

Gi)

(i) No sign or other advertising device shall be permitted on or around the battery
energy storage system, except as required by law to provide safety information, or
as set forth herein.

(ii) All signs shall comply with ANSI Z535 standards and shall include the type of
technology associated with the battery energy storage system, any special hazards
associated with the system, the type of suppression system installed in the area of
the battery energy storage system, and 24-hour emergency contact information,
including reach-back phone number.

(iii)As required by the National Electrical Code, disconnect and other emergency
shutoff information shall be clearly displayed on a light-reflective surface. A clearly
visible warning sign concerning high voltage shall be placed at the base of all pad-
mounted transformers and substations.

Lighting. Lighting of battery energy storage systems shall be limited to the minimum
necessary for safety, security, and operational purposes. All lighting shall utilize full
cut-off fixtures and shall comply with the standards set forth in § 210-81 of this chapter.

Vegetation and tree-cutting. Each Tier 4 battery energy storage system shall maintain
a 10-foot area on all sides cleared of combustible vegetation and other combustible
growth. However, single specimens of trees, shrubs, or cultivated ground cover such as

10


































