                                 TOWN BOARD MEETING
                                   ONE CANAL STREET
                                 SHERBURNE, NY 13460
                                   JANUARY 14, 2026




Present:
Supervisor Charles Mastro
Councilman Ed Meyer
Councilman Glen Bagnall
Councilman Shawn Kelly
Councilwoman Rowena Krum
Atty. Dylan Harris
Hwy. Supt. Chase Winton
Town Clerk Amy Donnison

Meeting was relocated to the Fire Department meeting room as there were to many present
for the public hearing to ﬁt in the Supervisors meeting room.

Supv. C. Mastro open the meeting at 7:04pm and welcomed those from the public. Stated
that this evening the purpose of the public hearing is to adopt a moratorium for 6 months
on battery storage facilities.

G. Bagnall made a motion to open the public hearing at 7:08pm. Seconded by S. Kelly.
Supv. C. Mastro stated that the board has sought the recommendation from the Town Atty
D. Harris on implementing a moratorium for 6 months which would give the town time to
adopt a local law if desired. An extension of 6 months can be added if additional time for
review is needed but it can not go beyond 1 year without extenuating circumstances. Site
plan review would be required regardless of the decision. The company, Nexamp, has stated
they would be willing to help with creating a local law. The proposed battery storage would
be comprised of 13 pods, would be self contained, all wiring would be underground and will
connect to the NYSEG sub-station. The estimated cost of construction is $60M. The
question frequently asked is can it be stopped? Supv. C. Mastro stated no but a local law
could be adopted to implement stringent conditions and they would have to still get site
plan review to obtain a permit.

Judith Webb, Knapp Rd; some towns such as Lackawanna have bans on these types of
battery storage places. D. Harris stated he will look into what Lackawanna has but in many
cases other municipalities have zoning – Sherburne has no zoning – and the zoning
regulations may have conditions such as setbacks, etc.

John Kordick, Sherburne; looking to conﬁrm that if this moratorium hasn’t allowed enough
time for review and creation of a local law to restrict this type of construction another 6
month moratorium can be adopted? Supv. C. Mastro stated yes.

John Alishaukus, Sherburne; stated his son is a ﬁreﬁghter in the south and that they have
encountered lithium battery ﬁres and it often takes days to extinguish.

Jackie Ryan, Knapp Rd; suggested the town check out Warwick, NY as they had a battery ﬁre
at a battery storage facility such as the one being proposed. There is no water basin nearby
and if it leaks it could enter the water system. C. Mastro stated he has heard of the Warwick
ﬁre and also wants to remind everyone that tonight is for a moratorium to block this
proposal from moving forward until a review can be done to create a local law which would
have conditions and/or restrictions that would need to be followed. The company may
decide that they do not like the conditions and/or restrictions and then choose not to
pursue locating here.

Kelly Stewart, Sherburne; asked if this is a project that the town is after? C. Mastro stated no
– that he was contacted by a representative of the company just after thanksgiving last year
and he brought it to the attention of the board at the December 10, 2025 meeting and the
recommendation by the board was to have this public hearing to adopt a moratorium.

Dave Jemzura, Sherburne; asked how big the site is? C. Mastro stated the lot is 13 acres and
the storage units would occupy 2 acres.

C. Willoby, Knapp Rd; stated they moved here from Syracuse and have been told that ﬁre
departments have to just let these units burn themselves out should they catch on ﬁre. How
many pods would there be and how close to the road? C. Mastro stated 13 pods and was
uncertain how close to the road the request would be for.

Maria Romanowski, Sherburne; stated that the woods and state land is nearby and should
there be a ﬁre there are so many dead trees in these woods that it is like a tinder box and it
would all be gone.

Anna Geier, Sherburne; Thank you board members for allowing the public to speak their
minds and to ask questions. It appears that the board is not in favor of the proposal and as
a side note is aware that Warwick has a paid ﬁre department whereas here we only run on
volunteers. G. Bagnall stated that perhaps lack of ﬁre department resources may be a basis
to deny. C. Mastro stated a pilot and host agreement would be implemented. D. Harris
stated that he has represented other towns with similar proposals and that sometimes they
do pay for ﬁre personnel training and equipment.

Janet, Knapp Rd; noted that the area being proposed to be used is a wet area and there was
ﬂooding a few years ago. Since water and these battery units don’t mix perhaps this is an
avenue to look into for denial.

Jennifer Brotton, Knapp Rd; There is a large drainage ditch in front of this property. How
would this aﬀect property values? Would like to see the proposal stopped. D. Harris stated
that DEC regulations would come into play if a wetland is within 100 feet.

Jerri Webb, So. Hamilton Rd; asked if environmental site plan review requirements would
need to be met or if industrial zoning could be put in place? D. Harris stated that yes a
SEQRA would be required. The Town has no zoning and it would take a year plus to create
zoning and spot zoning is illegal. E. Meyer reminded everyone that this is early stages yet
and inquired of D. Harris if a ﬁre suppression system could be required? D. Harris stated he
has not seen this yet. S. Kelly stated the Governor is the one issuing mandates such as on
allowing solar panels and you should go to Albany or get a petition as we may not be able to
completely stop this proposal.

Mary Fielding, Rt 80; What is the name of the company and would the town website be
updated to have agendas and minutes on it? C. Mastro stated Nexamp. A. Donnison stated
that information is on the website but also noted that it is not in any type of reasonable
search order and will be contacting the website designer but at this time is very busy with
taxes so probably will not be for another month or so.

Sandy S., New Turnpike Rd; inquired if it was known if any other town had been successful in
blocking this type of business? D. Harris stated that he is not aware of any if they did not
have zoning but will be checking onto it.

Stacy Hicks, Furman Mills Rd; asked if anyone knew where there were others? C. Mastro
stated there is one in Lansing NY.

Anna Geier, Sherburne; stated that she is aware that ORES trumps NYSDEC such as on the
Fort Edwards Project.

Bill Acee, Sherburne; As Mayor he wanted to assure everyone that this proposed project
does not connect to the Village Electric system. B. Acee stated he does support the ﬁre
department and has concerns about their safety should there be a ﬁre. It is his
understanding that the Mayor in Warwick is trying to ban any future battery storage
facilities and the dirt all around these pads had to be removed after the ﬁre due to
contamination.

Chris Thompson; stated as a member of the Sherburne Fire Department he is not aware of
any system on earth that will put a ﬁre out when these types of batteries are involved. A
Tesla car takes 20 to 30 thousand gallons to put out. State ﬁre has no training available for
ﬁre personnel on this matter. C. Mastro noted that Tesla is the manufacturer of these
batteries and that he has been told that now the units are completely assembled in the
factory so they are completely sealed rather than assembled on site. Chris Thompson stated
that in the event of a battery ﬁre they could call in HAZMAT and the closest team is an hour
away and they also are not trained in this type of ﬁre. C. Thompson asks the board to allow
the ﬁre department to have a seat at the table when ideas are being discussed for plan
creation.

C. Mastro asked if there was anyone present in support of the proposal by Nexamp? There
was not. C. Mastro stated they will be working with D. Harris to develop a very stringent
law, yet any law could be challenged through Article 78.

S. Kelly made a motion to close the public hearing at 8:00pm. Seconded by G. Bagnall. Ayes
All.

S. Kelly made a motion to reopen the regular meeting at 8:05pm. Seconded by G. Bagnall.
Ayes All.

G. Bagnall made a motion to approve a 6 month moratorium on the construction of battery
storage facilities in the Town of Sherburne. Seconded by E. Meyers. Ayes All.

C. Mastro stated he had received a copy of a letter regarding the request to lower the speed
limit on Rt 80 between Rogers Center and Baillies Lumber entrance. The letter is from
Assemblyman Joseph Angelino stating he reached out to NYSDOT and they are assigning the
request to be studied which includes a speed study, crash review and a sign inventory. C.
Winton reminded those present that Rt 80 is all state road and is not under the town’s
jurisdiction.



C. Mastro suggested that rather than follow the order on the agenda that the board jumps
to the decommissioning agreement topic under old business so that D. Harris and Tory Clark
do not have to sit through the regular board business unless they wish to.

Decommissioning Agreement:

Tory Clark from New energy Corp. stated that part of the reason the dollar amount may
seem low is because salvage funds are included. Mr. Clark suggested that perhaps a clause
could be included in the agreement to review every 5 years to see if it tracks with the cost or
if adjustments to cost may be justiﬁed. S. Kelly stated that he felt $1.5M sounded better
than a few hundred thousand to dismantle all the solar panels, dispose of them and bring
the land back to its original state. Mr. Clark said perhaps the salvage value could be taken
out. G. Bagnall asked how many projects has his company decommissioned? T. Clark stated
one. S. Kelly asked where are these panels recycled? T. Clark did not have a speciﬁc name
but stated these are sealed panels of glass and aluminum with .01 percent lead. S. Kelly
requests T. Clark to provide the board contact numbers for companies that perform
decommissions. C. Mastro asked what the salvage value is? D. Harris stated approximately
$400K and this dollar amount is common across the state and didn’t strike him as strange.
S. Kelly asked if he had been a part of a decommission? D. Harris stated not personally as he
only writes the agreements. C. Mastro stated they plan to start construction of these in the
early spring. C. Winton stated that there were 3 contractors in the room and that not one of
them would be able to decommission this site and bring land back to original site – even
getting salvage for the glass etc – to even close to the amount being proposed. If the cost to
develop the site is $10M then the cost to decommission should be at least a couple million.
T. Clark stated he can take that proposal back to the oﬃce but that it likely would not be
approved. He is here to try to help all come to an agreement which is why he suggested
inserting a 5 year review clause. S. Kelly said he would not vote for anything less than a
$1.5M minimum bond. T. Clark asked S, Kelly if the salvage component was removed what
number would he accept? S. Kelly again stated $1.5M. C. Mastro asked T. Clark if $1M would
be acceptable. T. Clark stated no as that number was still astronomical. S. Kelly asked where
are some of the companies that perform the decommissioning? T. Clark stated he believed
there was one in Colorado as well as New Jersey. C. Winton noted that the cost of
installation should be used to calculate the cost of decommissioning. D. Harris stated that
the Town would be open to a lawsuit if no agreement if met. Decommissioning Hs never
been an obstacle. C. Mastro thought they could consider $800K with the salvage removed
and a 5 year review. D. Harris stated recently Suﬀolk & Westchester County did one in the
$150K range which is normal and has never saw one as high as $800K. T. Clark stated that
even your own attorney has stated what he has seen as an average and he is certain that he
would never be able to get $800K approved. C. Winton suggests asking for $1.5M bond for
driveway access to the property. Site work is likely high and would like to see the site work
to install budget. T. Clark stated that conditions such as driveway access is above his level of
negotiation but cautions against using that tactic but would be willing to recommend $200K
to the company with salvage. S. Kelly stated that if we are going to be sued either now or
later it may as well be now and get it over with and still would like the names of the
companies in Colorado and New Jersey. T. Clark said he could bring back the $800K request
but is certain it will not ﬂy. T. Clark looked up a couple of the companies requested and one
is Comstock Metal out of Nevada. Metals@comstockinc.com as well as one called We
Recycle Solar @ 1-800-482-7050. D. Harris stated the town could always hire someone to do
an estimate to decommission the site.

C. Mastro stated that additional research would likely put this oﬀ for another month. S.
Kelly said that he would call these companies and could likely get estimates in a couple of
weeks. G. Bagnall asked D. Harris what the monthly premium on this bond would be. D.
Harris stated likely $2,500 to $3,000 per month.

D. Harris suggested that in an eﬀort to move this agreement along to avoid a potential
lawsuit at this time that the board agrees to $200K and a 1 year agreement. In the next year
it will give the board time to research and have backup documentation in hand to support a
higher request than $103,828.75, S. Kelly strongly disagrees with moving forward even with
a one year agreement. D. Harris stated that a comprehensive formal report could be put
together in the next year. C. Mastro noted that there is a good chance the project will not
even be completed in the next year.

D. Harris advises a 1 year agreement and a bond in the amount of $386,443.50 which does
not include salvage. C. Mastro was receptive to that suggestion as it would keep things
moving and give the board time to present a formal cost report. C. Winton stated that an
engineering ﬁrm could possibly be hired to ask about decommissioning. S. Kelly agreed that
this was a good idea. G. Bagnall also agrees that a 1 year agreement gives us an out and
time to do research on true cost.

G. Bagnall made a motion to approve C. Mastro to sign the decommissioning agreement of a
1 year term in the amount of $386,443.50. Seconded by E. Meyer. Nay vote: S. Kelly. Aye
votes: E. Meyer, G. Bagnall, R. Krum. Motion passed.

Motion to open organizational meeting at 9:37pm made by G. Bagnall, seconded by S. Kelly.
Ayes All.
Organizational Meeting:

Motion made by R. Krum to accept the dates and times for the 2026 Town Board meetings.
Seconded by S. Kelly. Ayes All.

Motion made by S. Kelly to accept current mileage reimbursement rate of .74 per mile.
Seconded by E. Meyer. Ayes All.

Motion made by S. Kelly to accept the audit of the supervisors report. Seconded by E.
Meyer. Ayes All.

C. Mastro noted that approval was needed to allow him to sign the Justice Reports. Motion
to approve made by E. Meyer. Seconded by S. Kelly. Ayes All.

E. Meyer made a motion to approve reappointing Holly Crouch to a 7 year term ending 12-
31-2032 to the Planning Board. Seconded by R. Krum. Ayes All.

Motion made by E, Meyer to have the oﬃcial newspaper for the Town of Sherburne be the
Sherburne News. Seconded by G. Bagnall. Ayes All.

G. Bagnall made a motion to accept the oﬃcial list of oﬃcers. Seconded by E. Meyer. Ayes
All.

Motion made by E. Meyer to close the organizational meeting at 8:16pm and to re-open the
regular board meeting. Seconded by G. Bagnall. Ayes All.

Motion made by R. Krum to approve the minutes of the December 10, 2025 meeting.
Seconded by S. Kelly. Ayes All.

Motion made by G. Bagnall to accept the Supervisors Report and the Town Clerks Report.
Seconded by S. Kelly. Ayes All.

No Codes report received.

Motion made by G. Bagnall to accept the Highway Report. Seconded by S. Kelly. Ayes All.
C. Winton stated that Granville Hill Road will be closed for construction eﬀective February 1,
2026. The truck that was out of commission is now back with a new motor. C. Winton
stated the insurance adjuster has been on site to look at the roof that was damaged by a
storm with high winds. Adjuster stated that it did not look like it could be patched and said
to go out to bid for total replacement. Bid specs will need to be written. Suggestions of
hiring and engineering ﬁrm to do so or A. Donnison stated she may be able to obtain specs
from a similar roof job. G. Bagnall agreed that if we could avoid hiring a ﬁrm to write the
specs it would be great.

C. Mastro stated that there were only 2 permits issued in the month of December.

New Business:

Contract for Fire and Ambulance were just delivered to the oﬃce and a motion is needed to
approve C. Mastro to sign. These contracts are corrected versions with the date of February
15, 2026. The ambulance amount is $125,000. and the ﬁre amount is $46,825.. E. Meyer
made a motion to approve C. Mastro to sign the Ambulance and Fire contract. Seconded by
S. Kelly. Ayes All.

A ﬁnancial report received from April (bookkeeper) indicated budget transfers that were
needed to cover 2025 year end expenses. A motion made by G. Bagnall to approve the
transfers, seconded by E. Meyer. Ayes All.

Old Business:

C. Mastro stated the contract for highway employees is complete.
C. Mastro also stated that there has been another delay in the library elevator rep[air.
In 2026 Charles Mastro will need to run again due to new election rules.

Motion made by S. Kelly to approve the bills. Seconded by G. Bagnall. Ayes All. E. Meyers
will be reviewing the February 2026 bills.

E. Meyers stated that the Earlville Library has received a $600,000 grant for new playground
equipment.

R. Krum stated the Planning Board has received a hard copy of the Draft Comprehensive
Plan for review. Also a reminder that on January 29, 2026 is the Ag Roundtable meeting at
the Sherburne Inn.

Motion to adjourn at 10:15pm made by S. Kelly. Seconded by G. Bagnall. Ayes All.
