                                        COUNTY OF SUFFOLK                             Z-1



                                           EDWARD P. ROMAINE
                                        SUFFOLK COUNTY EXECUTIVE

                          DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING
                                             SARAH LANSDALE
                                               COMMISSIONER
  MAUREEN GETCHELL                                                                    RORY WHELAN
CHIEF DEPUTY COMMISSIONER                                                          DEPUTY COMMISSIONER



                               STAFF REPORT
  SECTIONS A14-14 THRU A14-24 OF THE SUFFOLK COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE CODE

Applicant:                       Town of Brookhaven
Municipality:                    Town of Brookhaven
Location:                        Town-Wide

Received:                        07/08/2026
File Number:                     BR-26-08
Jurisdiction:                    Moratorium – Amendment to the Zoning Law – Brookhaven

OVERVIEW: The Town of Brookhaven is requesting a moratorium on the issuance of permits
and/or approvals for data centers. The moratorium expires on December 31, 2027.

The proposed moratorium text extension is provided below, verbatim from the Town:


                                              BACKGROUND

On July 16, 2026 the Town of Brookhaven unanimously adopted a local law establishing a
moratorium for Data Centers that will expire on December 31, 2027 (≈18 months). The local law
defines a data center as follows:

         All principal and accessory buildings, structures, facilities, campus of facilities, or portions
         thereof, including all associated equipment, systems, utilities and infrastructure, that is
         primarily used to house, operate, and maintain computer systems, servers, data storage
         devices, AI processing, cloud computing, web hosting, streaming support, large-scale
         computation and similar digital services, and related networking and telecommunications
         equipment for the processing, storage, transmission, research, and management of digital
         information. Nothing herein shall be construed to include customary accessory server
         rooms or network closets, telecommunication rooms for on-site operations for office
         buildings.

The moratorium local law includes exceptions for hardship, as well as pre-existing applications
as defined below:

§ 17-4 Exceptions.

         The prohibition on the land use application shall not be applied with respect to
         development pursuant to existing building permits or other application approvals and/or
         pursuant to applications which are filed, duly accepted as complete and pending, as of the
         effective date of this chapter herein. A complete application shall conform to and comply
         with all applicable requirements of Chapter 85 of the Code of the Town of Brookhaven,


Suffolk County Planning Commission               Page 1 of 4                         August 5. 2026


         the Planning Board regulations contained in the Code of the Town of Brookhaven and all
         other applicable state and local laws, rules and regulations.

On July 14, 2026, New York State Governor Hochul signed Executive Order No. 62, Establishing
a Temporary Moratorium on Data Centers in New York While the State Develops Higher
Standards for Data Center Development and Benefits Blueprint to Support Localities. The order
effectively directs the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC), “to hold
in abeyance all applications for any discretionary permit, approval license or similar form of
permission for the construction or expansion of a data center…” for one year while DEC, the
Department of Public Service (DPS), and Empire State Development (ESD) prepare reports
related to water withdrawal, interconnection, reliability of power, and cost allocation for network
upgrades, etc. The order defines a data center as follows:

         For the purposes of this Executive Order, "data center" shall mean a facility or group of
         facilities located on the same site or contiguous sites used to house computer servers,
         associated components, or computing or she or contiguous sites used to house computer
         servers, associated components, or computing or telecommunications equipment for the
         storage, processing, distribution, and / or management of data. Characteristics of data
         centers subject to this Executive Order include computer servers, associated components,
         or computing or telecommunications equipment which: (1) are in facilities containing
         uninterruptible power supply systems, specialized cooling systems designed for high-
         density computing loads, and/ or contain cybersecurity systems designed for secure digital
         infrastructure operations, (2) provide data storage, cloud computing, and/or content
         delivery to customers, internal operations, and/or affiliated business operations,
         oftentimes on a continuous twenty-four-hour cycle, and (3) consume or can consume 50
         megawatts of energy or more. Provided, however, that a facility that is primarily used for
         manufacturing, research (including but not of energy limited to quantum computing
         research or biomedical research), education (including but not limited to such facilities
         used by accredited colleges and universities in New York State, to the extent such colleges
         and universities are engaging in academic research, and the Empire AI consortium, or the
         institute, as defined in section three hundred sixty-one of the Economic Development
         Law), or the provision of medical care, is not covered by this definition and thus not subject
         to this Executive Order.

Staff notes that the above definition includes only those data centers that, “Consume or can
consume 50 megawatts of energy or more.”


                                         STAFF ANALYSIS

As noted in the past by the Suffolk County Planning Commission, a moratorium on development
is a local law or ordinance that suspends the right of property owners to obtain development
approvals while the community takes time to consider, draft or adopt land use plans or rules to
respond to new or changing circumstances not adequately dealt with by its current law. A
moratorium preserves the status quo for a reasonable time. A moratorium is, from one
perspective, the most extreme land use action that a municipality can take because it suspends
completely the rights of owners to use their property. Such development moratoria may be general
or specific. A general imposes a ban on all development within a community (allowing for certain
hardship exemptions), while a specific moratorium may prevent development approvals in a
specific geographic area or of a certain type of development.

Staff find that this proposed moratorium is intended to be specific and should not restrict all
development on any or all parcels within the Town; rather, it is understood that the proposed
moratorium is limited to AI data centers only, and for a period of about 18 months.




Suffolk County Planning Commission             Page 2 of 4                          August 5. 2026


Staff notes that the Town is proposing the moratorium extension to allow time to review its zoning
code and develop regulations to adequately address the unique issues present with data center
development. The below is from the stated purpose of the local law:

         In order to address development of Data Centers within the Town of Brookhaven, the
         Town Board heretofore directed the Commissioner of Planning, Environment and Land
         Management to undertake in the development of a comprehensive zoning ordinance as
         to form specific rules for the location and installation of Data Centers in an effort to guide
         development of these facilities. The scale, operational characteristics, and infrastructure
         requirements distinguish Data Centers from typical commercial and industrial uses. It is in
         the public interest to establish comprehensive land use regulations that will serve to
         protect the Town’s natural resources; ensure compatibility with surrounding land uses;
         promote sustainable and resilient development practices; mitigate potential impacts
         related to noise, heat, visual character, water and energy consumption; consider
         opportunities for energy efficiency, renewable energy integration, and resource
         management; and promote safe, secure, and efficient facility operation. There is a need
         for further development of the issue of the impacts of Data Centers, and the Town must
         take reasonable measures, temporarily, to protect the public interest and welfare until a
         comprehensive zoning ordinance is adopted.

In New York State as of May 2026, there were nearly 12 gigawatts of data center load requests;
about two-thirds (8 gigawatts) were requested in 2025. In the Town of Brookhaven, there is
currently a proposal for a data center to occupy three vacant warehouses in Yaphank; a total of
549,000 square feet on 71 acres.

Proponents of data centers cite the need for these facilities to support the data needs of emerging
technologies, such as artificial intelligence requiring large amounts of data storage. These
facilities are argued to encourage grid upgrades through new investments as businesses build
data centers. In the short term, they can support construction jobs. Long term jobs are potentially
well-paying tech roles.

Opponents of data centers cite many of the issues above such as water and power usage. Noise
from cooling fans and other mechanical components, as well as potential pollution from water
usage are also cited as issues. The promise of high-tech jobs may also be overstated.



                                        RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends Approval of a proposed Local Law of the Town of Brookhaven for a
moratorium on the issuance of permits and/or approvals of data centers, subject to the following
condition and comments:

Condition:

    The moratorium extension shall be limited to an initial twelve (12) month period. The Town
    shall return to the Suffolk County Planning Commission at the end of the twelve (12) month
    period (i.e. July 2027) to report on their progress with updates to their code for data centers,
    and to discuss if an additional six (6) month period extension of the moratorium is warranted.


Reason:

         On July 14, 2026, New York State Governor Hochul signed Executive Order No. 62,
         Establishing a Temporary Moratorium on Data Centers in New York While the State
         Develops Higher Standards for Data Center Development and Benefits Blueprint to

Suffolk County Planning Commission             Page 3 of 4                          August 5. 2026


         Support Localities. The order effectively directs the New York State Department of
         Environmental Conservation (DEC), “to hold in abeyance all applications for any
         discretionary permit, approval license or similar form of permission for the construction or
         expansion of a data center…” for one year while DEC, the Department of Public Service
         (DPS), and Empire State Development (ESD) prepare reports related to water withdrawal,
         interconnection, reliability of power, and cost allocation for network upgrades, etc.

Comments:

    1. The Town should immediately review all state materials and reports related to data centers
       as they are released. New York State Executive Order 62 includes timelines for reports
       from various state agencies (DEC, etc.). The Town should contact these agencies for any
       additional information as it becomes available.

    2. The Town should confirm that the temporary moratorium will only apply to data center
       related applications and not deem a larger proposed land use application unfit for review
       if a portion of such proposal includes a data center facility, rather that data center portion
       of such a proposed application may not move forward but allow the remainder of said
       application to continue to be reviewed by the Town.

    3. The Town is encouraged to review and coordinate with other Long Island municipalities
       on their review of updates to local, state and national regulations that may relate to data
       centers, which could help the Town better understand applicable appropriate regulations
       that would allow for the development of these facilities while adhering to the Town’s public
       safety, land use planning, infrastructure, and other concerns.




Suffolk County Planning Commission            Page 4 of 4                         August 5. 2026


Suffolk County Planning Commission

Donald Eyersolt
CHAIRMAN
At Large

Robert Martin
VICE CHAIRMAN
Smithtown Town

Louis Dietz
SECRETARY
Babylon Town

Lydia A. Tortora
Southold Town

vacant
East Hampton Town

George J. Dickerson
Shelter Island Town

Richard London
Village under 5,000
population
Michael J. Macco, Esq.

Huntington Town

; Laure C. Nolan, Esq.
Village over 5,000
population °

Richard M. O’Dea
Riverhead Town

Edward J. Rosavitch, PB
Brookhaven Town

Frank A. Tantone, Esq
Islip Town

vacant
Southampton Town

Mardooni Vahradian
At Large

. Linda B.Petersen
At Large

Advisory News

Volume 2
Issue 1

Spring - 1998

MORATORIUM ON DEVELOPMENT

moratorium on development is
HX local law or .ordinance that

uspends the right of property
owners to obtain development
approvals while the community takes
time to consider, draft and adopt land use
plans or rules to respond to new or
changing circumstances not adequately
dealt with by its current laws.

Development moratoria may be general
or specific. A general moratorium
imposes a ban on all development in the
community. Hardship exemptions may be
provided and certain actions may be
exempted.

A specific moratorium may prevent
development approvals in a particular
geographic area or of a certain type. Mor-
atoria have suspended the right to process
proposals relating to a specific land use.
For example, they have been enacted to
affect only the construction of docks, for
instance, or communications antennas.

PURPOSE —

A moratorium on development
preserves the status quo for a

reasonable time while the municipality develops and adopts
a land use strategy to respond to new or recently perceived
problems. The moratorium prevents developers and property
owners from rushing to develop their land under current land
use rules that the community is in the process of changing. By
so doing, it helps to accomplish the purpose of the new rules by

giving them the broadest possible applicability and preventing

development that is inconsistent with them.

AUTHORITY |

There is no specific statutory authorization to adopt a
moratorium on development. The courts have pointed to two
separate sources of authority, while consistently confirming the
municipal power to enact moratoria.

Communities are implicitly authorized to take those actions
they deem reasonable to encourage the most appropriate use of
the land throughout the municipality. In light of new or
changing circumstances, a moratorium may be necessary to
allow the community to achieve this express purpose of zoning
and land use planning.

Some courts have held that a development moratorium is a
form of zoning, implying that it is part of the statutorily
delegated power to adopt and amend zoning provisions.
Alternatively, a community's authority to adopt a moratorium
has been referred to as a “police power” measure appropriate
to prevent conditions that threaten the community's health,
safety, welfare and morals.

IMPLEMENTATION

A moratorium is, from one perspective, the most extreme
land use action that a municipality can take because it
suspends completely the rights of owners to use their
property. Seen in this light, it is advisable to precede the
adoption of a moratorium by findings that confirm the
necessity of this action. What are the conditions that mandate
the imposition of amoratorium? Are no other alternatives, less
burdensome on property rights, available? Why are the existing
land use plans and ordinances not adequate? What recent
cireumstances have occurred that justify the adoption of the
moratorium? How serious and urgent are these circumstances?
What hard evidence is there to document the necessity of the
moratorium?



When adopting a moratorium, the municipality may set forth
how the situation that gave rise to the moratorium is to be
dealt with. What local bodies are responsible? What studies
are to be done? What resources are being made available to
complete those studies? Can deadlines be established for
various steps in the process? The more specific and
legitimate this plan and timetable are, the more likely the
moratorium will be found to be reasonable.

Based on this action plan and timetable, a date can be
selected for the expiration of the moratorium. A moratorium
can be extended if the timetable cannot be mét; however, the
reasonableness of the action is enhanced by setting a date for
expiration that is legitimate under the circumstances.

A moratorium should be adopted in conformance with all
procedures required of any zoning or land use action,
including notice, hearing, the formalities of adoption and
filing. While amoratorium does notrequire an énvironmental
review under the State Environmental Quality Review Act,
if it affects adjacent municipalities or county facilities, it may
be subject to review by those governments before it can be
formally adopted. The Suffolk County Planning
Commission considers suspension of any portion of a
’ Zoniug Code to be a “municipal zoning action” requiring
review by the Commission. ‘

LIMITATIONS AND CONCERNS

Since development moratoria affect property rights so
severely, they must be reasonable or run the risk of being
challenged, voided by the courts and, perhaps, resulting
jn a damage award against the locality. Reasonableness is
best established if the community can document that it is
facing a true emergency. Several court decisions sustaining
moratoria refer to the "dire necessity" that justifies them.
Such a necessity arises not only when health and safety risks
are confronted, but also when the community is facing a
significant new land use problem that its existing regulations
were not designed to handle.

For the same reason, when specific action plans and

timetables are established to deal with the necessity or
emergency, the reasonableness of the locality's moratorium

SOURCE:

is demonstrated. Similarly, a community needs to make
reasonable progress in carrying out the plan and adhering to
the schedule so its actions are seen to be reasonable.
Moratoria that have been extended for up to three years have
been’ sustained by a showing that the community was
diligently pursuing its plan and timetable and shorter
moratoria have been voided because the community was
making little or no progress. In the same way, the plan must
be calculated to deal directly with the necessity or emergency
at hand; otherwise, its reasonableness may be questioned.

Moratoria do not apply to approved projects where the
developer has completed construction or has completed
substantial construction in reliance on a development
approval or permit. Such developers are said to have vested
rights in their permits and to be immune from changes in
applicable regulations. Other property owners, who have
made less progress, are said to have no legitimate or
enforceable expectation that the rules applicable to the
development of their land might not change in the interest of
protecting the public health, safety or welfare.

CITATIONS:

1. In Duke v. Town of Huntington, 153 Misc. 2d 521, 581
N.Y.S.2d 978 (Sup.Ct,Suffolk Co., 1991), the property
owner challenged a moratorium prohibiting construction of
any docks, The court held the moratorium unreasonable
under the circumstances.

2. In B & L Development Corp. v. Town of Greenfield, 146
Misc. 2d 638, 551 N.Y.S.2d 734 (1990), the court struck
down a one year moratorium on all building permits and land
use approvals including subdivision and site plans, The
court found that in adopting the moratorium, the Town
had failed to notify the county government under General
Municipal Law § 239-m and adjacent communities under
Town Law § 264 and to follow its own requirements for
adopting zoning provisions.

3. In Cellular Telephone Co. v. Tarrytown, 209 A.D.2d 57,
624 N.Y.S.2d 170, (2nd Dep't, 1995) the court struck down
a moratorium prohibiting the construction of cellular
antenna.

Local Leader's Guide to Land Use Practice, Second Edition (In Progress), Series IIT: Innovative Tools and Techniques,
Issue 1: Moratorium on Development, http://www.law.pace.edu/landuse/morato~1.htm], downloaded 4/23/98.

