ORDINANCE 2026-23

ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF NASHVILLE TOWN COUNCIL
INSTITUTING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON THE PERMITTING OF DATA
CENTERS, DATA PROCESSING FACILITIES, CRYPTOCURRENCY MINING
OPERATIONS AND SIMILAR USES

WHEREAS, NCGS §160D-107 authorizes local governments to adopt a temporary
moratorium on any development approval required by law; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Nashville Land Use Plan does not define data centers,
cryptocurrency mining, data processing facilities, data centers, and other uses associated with
data centers as specific uses; and

WHEREAS, after duly noticing a public hearing in accordance with N.C. Gen. Stat. §
160D-601, the Town Council held a public hearing at the July 22, 2026, regular meeting to
receive public input on the proposed moratorium;

WHEREAS, the Town of Nashville at their July 22, 2026, regular meeting passed a
resolution authorizing the Town to initiate the moratorium process and a additional notice of
public hearing for the August 04, 2026 regular meeting;

WHEREAS, after duly noticing a public hearing in accordance with N.C. Gen. Stat. §
160D-601, the Town Council held a public hearing at the August 04, 2026, regular meeting to
receive the public input on the proposed moratorium;

WHEREAS, the Town Council hereby adopts a temporary moratorium on development
approvals for data centers, data processing facilities, cryptocurrency mining operations, and
similar uses to protect the public interest and welfare of the residents of the Town of Nashville
until regulations regarding the aforementioned uses are adopted.

NOW, THEREFORE, Be It Ordained by the Town Council of the Town of Nashville,
Nash County as follows:

SECTION 1. A temporary moratorium is hereby imposed commencing on July 23, 2026,
and expiring on July 23, 2027, or upon approval of new zoning regulations regarding data
centers, data processing facilities, cryptocurrency mining operations, and similar uses not yet
defined in the Chapter 18 of the Town of Nashville General Ordinance Land Use Regulations,
This moratorium specifically includes all land uses that involve data centers, data processing
facilities, cryptocurrency mining, and similar uses in the incorporated areas and planning
jurisdiction of the Town of Nashville.

SECTION 2. For purposes of this moratorium, “Data Center,” “Data Processing
Facility,” and “Cryptocurrency Mining Operation” are used interchangeably to describe the use
of land in which a building or dedicated space within a building, houses computer systems and


associated components, such as telecommunication and data processing systems, to be used for
remote storage, processing, or distribution of large amounts of data. Examples of such data
include but are not limited to: computationally intensive applications such as cryptocurrency
mining, artificial intelligence computing, weather modeling, genome sequencing, application
hosting, cloud storage, video and technical streaming services, etc. To support operations, such
facilities may utilize air handlers, power generators, water cooling and storage facilities, utility
substations, and other infrastructure.

SECTION 3. This moratorium shall not apply to:
a. Data processing equipment or server rooms that are clearly incidental and subordinate
to a permitted principal use and are intended solely to support the on-site operations of
such principal use, provided that such equipment or server rooms comply with all
applicable provisions of the Town Zoning Ordinance. Such principal use may include, but
is not limited to, hospitals, medical facilities, financial institutions, offices, educational
institutions, or similar uses, as long as such data processing activities are not offered as a
primary service to off-site users; and

b. Single-family and two-family residential dwellings

SECTION 4. Pursuant to the requirements of N.C. Gen. Stat. § 160D-107, the Town
makes the following statements:

a. Data centers, data processing facilities, cryptocurrency mining operations, and other
uses associated with data processing facilities require considerable amounts of
electricity and water usage, which threaten to strain the Town’s ability to provide these
utilities to existing residences and businesses. Further uncertainty lies in the extent of
greenhouse gas emissions, pollution, e-waste, noise, and other local impacts that these
uses will have on residents and businesses near the facilities. The Nashville Planning
Department is in the process of researching and studying the effects of these uses and
will develop zoning standards in light of these findings. It is necessary and in the
public interest for the Town to have sufficient time to develop such standards. The
Town has looked at alternative solutions to a moratorium; however, there is no
substitute for careful and deliberate planning, especially in light of the threat to public
resources these uses pose without a thorough and coordinated plan to provide
necessary utilities to these uses. The Town has determined that to simply allow this
intensive land use to be permitted without regard to location, height, size, density,
population, need for resources, and capacity to provide resources would be counter to
the Town’s goal of providing organized and responsible growth, and hinder
implementation of the forthcoming updates to the Land Use Plan.

b. All development approvals for data centers, data processing facilities, cryptocurrency
mining operations, and any uses associated with data processing facilities are subject

to the moratorium. A moratorium on these approvals will provide the Town with the
opportunity to conduct meaningful research of the effects of these uses; evaluate the
Town’s capacity to provide utilities to these uses; and develop appropriate regulations

as are necessary to ensure organized and responsible growth without sacrificing public


health and safety.

c. The moratorium shall begin on July 23, 2026, and shall last until July 23, 2027,

or upon adoption of zoning regulation(s) addressing the land uses of data centers, data
processing facilities, cryptocurrency mining, and associated uses, whichever occurs
earlier. This moratorium is necessary to allow Town staff sufficient time to study these
uses and their impacts, to consider zoning standards to appropriately address any such
impacts, and to prepare amendments to the UDO to address data centers, data
processing facilities, cryptocurrency mining, and associated uses prior to the
expiration of the moratorium.

d. In the first four months of the moratorium, Planning Staff intends to study the impacts
of data centers, data processing facilities, cryptocurrency mining, and any other uses
associated with data processing facilities on the community, analyzing the effects on
both residential and commercial areas within the town. Planning Staff intends to
simultaneously investigate how other communities in North Carolina and surrounding
States have addressed these impacts through zoning regulations. Planning Staff will
develop the land use regulations required to ensure that data centers, data processing
facilities, cryptocurrency mining, and any other uses associated with data processing
facilities exist in harmony with the principles of organized and responsible growth.
Subsequently, it is anticipated that a series of text amendments to the Land Use Plan will
be proposed. In the following months, the legislative process will be followed to adopt
such amendments. Public input will be sought during each part of the process. The
research, policy development, and legislative processes necessitate a moratorium of at
least twelve (12) months.

SECTION 5. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is,
for any reason, held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this ordinance.

SECTION 6. This ordinance shall become effective upon its adoption by the Town of
Nashville Town Council.

PASSED, APPROVED, and ADOPTED this 4" day of August 2026.

Brenda Brown Mayor

“pe

Louise Bennett, Town Clerk

(SEAL)

=
=
Cy
BS ak
“wn eg wore



