CHEROKEE COUNTY HIGH IMPACT FACILITY MORATORIUM

WHEREAS, the Comprehensive Plan adopted for Cherokee County calls for
the County:

To implement narrowly defined land-use legislation in order to
limit conditions under which high-impact industries and facilities
that may disturb the quiet enjoyment of residential properties in
the county.

WHEREAS, the Cherokee County Comprehensive was adopted on 18 September
2023,

WHEREAS, The Cherokee County Planning Board and the Cherokee County
Board of Commissioners find it necessary to carefully research and
develop an ordinance that would define and limit high-impact
industries and facilities within the confines of the County.

WHEREAS, Cherokee County currently houses certain industries and
facilities that may be considered as high-impact.

WHEREAS, the existing development regulations within the County are
not compatible and congruous with the impacts anticipated from the
expansion of existing facilities.

WHEREAS, immediate needs for control of new, and expansion of old,
potentially high-impact industries and facilities exist in the County.

WHEREAS, the Cherokee County Board of Commissioners in this
legislative session conducted a public hearing regarding this issue of
this moratorium in accordance with NCGS 16@D-6@1 on this date.

WHEREAS, NCGS 16@D-107 provides in subsection (a):

Authority. - As provided in this section, local governments may adopt
temporary moratoria on any development approval required by law,
except for the purpose of developing and adopting new or amended plans
or development regulations governing residential uses. The duration of
any moratorium shall be reasonable in light of the specific conditions
that warrant imposition of the moratorium and may not exceed the
period of time necessary to correct, modify, or resolve such
conditions,

WHEREFORE, Cherokee County Board of Commissioners, incorporating
all information stated herein above, and pursuant to NCGS 168D-107(d)
states as follows:

1. Cherokee County currently contains at least 3 crypto mining

sites, with at least 2 being unenclosed by a building. That


crypto mining facilities are known to use a considerable
amount of electricity. That the Tennessee Valley Authority is
in the process of installing new power transmission lines in
the County to bring more electricity to the area. Unenclosed
crypto mining facilities produce noise and other local impacts
to communities living near the facilities. The County contains
no less than one solid waste collection facility not operated
by the County. The County has only recently adopted a
comprehensive plan that provides for its desire for limited
land use regulation of high impact facilities in a county that
is, and in the foreseeable future will remain, un-zoned. The
County seeks to develop standards and/or mitigation methods
for intensive land usage that may pose detrimental harm to the
natural environment. Due to the fact that the County only
recently adopted a comprehensive plan, a rezoning and adoption
of a high-impact land use ordinance without proper
consideration of its terms and impacts is an inadequate
alternative to a moratorium. Other alternative solutions and
courses of action short of a moratorium have also been
considered by local government (i.e. noise ordinance), but
none have been found to adequately address the issues.
Cherokee County, now having access to land use regulation,
desires to develop definitions and procedures for the
limitation and or/regulation of certain high impact industries
and facilities in the County. As Cherokee County is un-zoned,
there are no developmental approvals that would be affected by
a moratorium and indeed nothing to stop the construction or
expansion of any high impact facility.

For the duration of the moratorium, high impact industries
and/or facilities shall be defined as:

-Asphalt producing or distributing facilities.

-Facilities producing or storing bulk inflammables, chemicals,
biological waste or explosives

-Facilities that provide a commercial process by which
cryptocurrency transactions are verified and added to a public
ledger, known as a block chain, and also the means through
which new units of cryptocurrencies are released, through the
use of a server farm (2 or more interconnected computers)
employing data processing equipment, housed together in a
single facility whose primary function is to perform crypto
currency mining.

-Unenclosed data storage facilities utilizing any powered
cooling devices.

-Facilities utilizing a generator or generators capable of
producing 60@ kilowatts or greater of electricity by the use
of fossil fuel power.


~solid waste management and disposal facilities
-commercial incinerators

-Bulk concrete producing facilities

-facilities for the storage or disposal of any nuclear or
toxic materials

- privately operated prisons

- The Moratorium shall begin on the date of adoption and shall
last for (1) one calendar year therefrom or until such time as
the Cherokee County Board of Commissioners enacts a high-
impact land use ordinance. County Staff and the Planning board
are instructed to develop and prepare a high impact land use
ordinance that does not include any zoning provisions for
consideration of the Cherokee County board of Commissioners.
Such time is necessary for development as Cherokee County does
not have nor has ever had land use ordinances and needs the
time for development.

. The Planning Board shall report to the County Commission at
the first meeting of the Cherokee County Board of
Commissioners in March 2025 for discussion of progress and
interim steps toward development of the complete high impact
ordinance.

5. If any person, firm, corporation, organization or association

violates or attempt to violate any terms of this ordinance the
County may enforce its terms by any means available to it by
law, including those provided in N.C. Gen. Stat. § 160D-404,

NOW, THERFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CHEROKEE COUNTY BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS THAT:

1,

A temporary moratorium is hereby imposed for a period of one (1)

year, From and after the effective date of this Ordinance and
continuing through its duration, the construction, erection,
alteration, enlargement, renovation, substantial repair, movement
to another site, demolition of any structure, excavation,
grading, filling, clearing, alteration of land, subdivision of
land as defined in N.C. Gen. Stat. § 16@D-802, or initiation or
substantial change in the use of land or the intensity of use of
land for any of the following uses shall be prohibited:

-Asphalt producing or distributing facilities.

-Facilities producing or storing bulk inflammables, chemicals or
explosives

-Facilities that provide a commercial process by which

cryptocurrency transactions are verified and added to a public

ledger, known as a block chain, and also the means through which new

units of cryptocurrencies are released, through the use of a server

farm (2 or more interconnected computers) employing data processing


equipment, housed together in a single facility whose primary

function is to perform crypto currency mining.
~Unenclosed data storage facilities utilizing any powered cooling
devices.
-Facilities utilizing a generator or generators capable of producing
6@@ kilowatts or greater of electricity by the use of fossil fuel
power,

-solid waste management facilities

-commercial incinerators

~Bulk concrete producing facilities

-facilities for the storage of any nuclear or toxic materials

privately operated prison

» Scope- this moratorium shall apply to all unincorporated portions

of Cherokee County and excludes lands included in the Qualla
Boundary of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians.

. Effect on existing facilities: This moratorium strictly

prohibits any extension, expansion or additions to any of the
above stated facilities. The Office of the Cherokee County
Building Inspector is instructed to specifically prohibit the
issuance of any permits for the expansion of any operating
facility as listed herein above. Any ceasing of any operation of
an existing facility for more than 30 days shall be construed as
a permanent shutdown and shall make resumption of any such
operation subject to this moratorium.

. Enforcement- If any person, firm, corporation, organization, or

association violates or attempts to violate any term of this
ordinance the County may enforce its terms by any means available
to it in law or equity, including those provided in N.C. Gen.
Stat. § 16eD-404,

. Exclusions - In accordance with N.C. Gen. Stat. § 16@D-107(c),

absent an imminent threat to public health or safety, the
Development moratorium adopted pursuant to this Ordinance shall
not apply to:

a. Any project for which a special use permit application has
been accepted as complete;

b. To development set forth in a site-specific vesting plan
approved pursuant to G.S. 16@D-108.1;

c. To development for which substantial expenditures have
already been made in good-faith reliance on a prior valid
development approval;

d. To sketch plans or preliminary or final subdivision plats
that have been accepted for review by the County prior to the
call for a hearing to adopt the moratorium;

e. Repairs to existing buildings regulated by the North Carolina
State Building Codes; and


6.

f. Site improvements for existing uses required to comply with
the Americans with Disabilities Act.

g. Specifically excluded from this ordinance are mobile
electricity-generating units operated by fossil fuels that
are for temporary use during periods of power outages.

The County Commissioners may renew this moratorium or extend its
duration, as necessary, consistent with the requirements of N.C.
Gen, Stat. § 16@D-107(e). The County Commissioners may also
terminate this moratorium earlier than indicated in this
Ordinance by action of the County Commission.

. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a complete application for a

development approval has been submitted prior to the effective
date of this moratorium, the permit choice provisions of N.C.
Gen, Stat. § 16@D-108(b) shall be applicable when permit
processing resumes.

If any section, subsection, sentence, or phrase in this ordinance
is held to be invalid or unlawful, such ruling shall not affect
the remaining portions of the ordinance. The ordinance shall be
construed as having the Board of Commissioners having passed,
respectively, each section, clause, or phrase regardless of any
ruling that any one of them may be unlawful or invalid.

On this the 2nd day of October, 2023

Cul Lit,

Cal Stiles, Chairman
Cherokee County Board of Commissioners

ATTEST:

NW) rue Adare
Maria Hass
Clerk to the Board

