                                                                                                                   Holly Springs Town Council
                                                                                                             7:00 PM Tuesday, June 16, 2026
                                                                                                                              Regular Meeting
                                                                                                    Holly Springs Town Hall Council Chambers
                                                                                                                  128 S. Main Street, 2nd Floor


                                                                                 Agenda



1.      Call to Order
2.      Pledge of Allegiance
3.      Invocation
4.      Adjustment and approval of June 16, 2026 meeting agenda
PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD
Each speaker may speak up to 3 minutes, and the total comment period will be 30 minutes or less. Citizens should sign up with the Town Clerk to speak prior to
the start of the meeting. Although the Council is interested in hearing your concerns, speakers should not expect Council action or deliberation on subject matter
brought up during the Public Comment segment. Topics requiring further investigation will be referred to the appropriate town officials or staff and may be
scheduled for a future agenda. Thank you for your consideration of the Town Council, staff, and other speakers.

RECOGNITIONS
5.      Holly Springs High School Women's Soccer State Champions
6.      Juneteenth Proclamation
7.      July Parks and Recreation Month Proclamation
REQUESTS AND COMMUNICATIONS
8.      Festival Street Design Project Overview
CONSENT AGENDA
9.      May 19, 2026 Business Meeting and May 12 and 21, 2026 Workshop Meeting Minutes
10.     End of Year Budget Amendments and Grants
11.     Voluntary Annexation A25-10 Veridea S Village East
12.     Engineering Design and Construction Standards Supplement #15
13.     Holly Springs Rd. (Central) - Design Change Order #5
PUBLIC HEARINGS
14.     Consideration of a Moratorium on Data Centers
NEW BUSINESS
15.     Bridge Naming Endorsement in Honor of Deputy Mark R. Tucker
OTHER BUSINESS
MANAGER'S REPORT
CLOSED SESSION
ADJOURNMENT

      In accordance with ADA regulations please contact the Town Clerk’s office at least 48 hours before the meeting to
                          request an auxiliary aid or service needed to participate in this meeting:
                                    linda.mckinney@hollyspringsnc.gov 919-557-3900




                                                                                                                                                      Page 1 of 229


                                      Holly Springs Town Council
                                           Town Council Meeting Agenda Cover Sheet


                                                                       Agenda Item#: 5.
Recognitions
Title: Holly Springs High School Women's Soccer State Champions
Strategic Priority Area: Vibrant Community
Staff Resource: Mayor Kondratick


Action(s):
Honor the Holly Springs High School Women's Soccer Team for their State Championship.
Explanation:

    • The Holly Springs High School Women's Soccer Team defeated Weddington to earn the
      7A Championship, the first for Holly Springs High School Women's Soccer.
    • Mayor Kondratick wishes to honor the 25 team members and their coaches for this
      achievement.

Background:

    • The team finished the season with a record of 20-3-1.
    • Coach Miller and members of the team will be present to accept the proclamation.

Funding Source(s):
N/A
Attachment(s):
1.   HSHS Women's Soccer Champs




                                                                  Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                   June 16, 2026

                                                                                         Page 2 of 229


                              Proclamation
                             Office of the Mayor
WHEREAS, the Town of Holly Springs wishes to honor and recognize the Holly Springs High
School Varsity Women’s Soccer Team, comprised of 25 players and four coaches; and
WHEREAS, the team finished the 2026 season with an overall record of 20-3-1; and
WHEREAS, the team won their first State Championship after defeating Weddington, 2-1, in the
7A Championship at Durham County Memorial Stadium; and
WHEREAS, competing at a high level requires year-round effort; and
WHEREAS, the team’s success requires the support of the athletes’ families; and
WHEREAS, the Women’s Soccer Team has exemplified strong leadership and a sense of
determination during their games;
NOW, THEREFORE, I, Mike Kondratick, Mayor of the Town of Holly Springs, North Carolina,
am hereby honored to recognize and celebrate the

 Holly Springs High School Women’s Soccer Team
and on behalf of the Holly Springs Town Council and citizens, I hereby commend them for their
tireless effort and high achievement, and wish them success in their future endeavors.


                                              IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have
                                              hereunto set my hand and caused the
                                              seal of the Town of Holly Springs, North
                                              Carolina, to be affixed on this 16th day of
                                              June, 2026.



                                              Michael D. Kondratick, Mayor



                                                                                            Page 3 of 229


                                         Holly Springs Town Council
                                              Town Council Meeting Agenda Cover Sheet


                                                                            Agenda Item#: 6.
Recognitions
Title: Juneteenth Proclamation
Strategic Priority Area: Vibrant Community
Staff Resource: Mike Kondratick, Mayor


Action(s):
Proclaim June 19, 2026 as Juneteenth in Holly Springs.
Explanation:

    • June 19, 2026 is the 161st anniversary of Juneteenth.
    • June 19th is celebrated as Juneteenth throughout many communities in the United
      States.
    • Declared a state holiday in Texas in 1979, Juneteenth is now recognized as a state
      holiday in 40 states.
    • Holly Springs' celebration will include food trucks, local vendors, a free kids zone, and live
      music and performances.

Background:

    • President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation on January 1, 1863,
      which freed enslaved people.
    • The 13th Amendment to the Constitution, abolishing slavery, was ratified on December 6,
      1865.
    • African-Americans in Galveston, TX adopted June 19, 1866 as Juneteenth in celebration
      of the news of the Emancipation Proclamation reaching their community.
    • Since 1866, the celebration has spread throughout the United States.

Funding Source(s):
N/A
Attachment(s):
1.   Juneteenth 2026




                                                                       Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                        June 16, 2026

                                                                                            Page 4 of 229


                                     Proclamation
                                    Office of the Mayor
WHEREAS, the constitution of the United States details the rights of all citizens based on the philosophy of government
outlined in the Declaration of Independence, which states “all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their
creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness”; and

WHEREAS, the Emancipation Proclamation, an executive order issued January 1, 1863, by President Abraham Lincoln,
immediately freed approximately five hundred thousand people from generational bondage in the rebellious states; and

WHEREAS, word about the signing of the Emancipation Proclamation was delayed some two and one-half years, until
June 1865, in reaching authorities and African Americans in the South and Southwestern United States; and

WHEREAS, African Americans in Galveston, TX, adopted June 19, 1866, as Juneteenth, a Black Independence Day in
celebration of America’s commitment to liberty and equality that has become a part of national African American history
and culture; and

WHEREAS, the 13th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, abolishing slavery everywhere, except for
punishment of a crime, was ratified by Congress on December 6, 1865; and

WHEREAS, we understand that a written declaration is not enough, and that we, as Holly Springs residents, must be
willing to do our part to ensure everyone, regardless of race, gender, or religion, is afforded equal access to the
opportunities America has to offer;

NOW, THEREFORE, I, Mike Kondratick, Mayor of the Town of Holly Springs, North Carolina, do hereby proclaim
June 19, 2026, as


                                              Juneteenth
in Holly Springs and commend its observance to all residents.

                                                        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set
                                                        my hand and caused the seal of the Town of
                                                        Holly Springs, North Carolina, to be affixed on
                                                        this 16th day of June, 2026.




                                                        Michael D. Kondratick, Mayor




                                                                                                                 Page 5 of 229


                                        Holly Springs Town Council
                                             Town Council Meeting Agenda Cover Sheet


                                                                           Agenda Item#: 7.
Recognitions
Title: July Parks and Recreation Month Proclamation
Strategic Priority Area: Vibrant Community
Staff Resource: LeeAnn Plumer, Parks & Recreation, Kristen Denton, Parks & Recreation, Mike
Kondratick, Mayor


Action(s):
Proclaim July as Parks and Recreation Month in Holly Springs.
Explanation:

    • July is Parks and Recreation Month, a program of the National Recreation and Parks
      Association (NRPA).
    • This year's theme, "The Power of Parks and Recreation", celebrates how parks and
      recreation brings us together, strengthens our health and well-being, and builds more
      resilient, connected communities.
    • In celebration of the month, staff has planned a variety of free activities for all ages and
      interests.
    • Parks and recreation services are vitally important to establishing and maintaining quality
      of life, ensuring the health of all residents, and contributing to the economic and
      environmental well-being of our community.

Background:

    • Since 1985, communities across America have celebrated July as Parks and Recreation
      Month.
    • The goal is to raise awareness of the vital impact that parks and recreation has on
      communities across the United States.

Funding Source(s):
N/A
Attachment(s):
1.   Parks and Recreation Month 2026




                                                                     Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                      June 16, 2026

                                                                                          Page 6 of 229


                                        Proclamation
                                       Office of the Mayor
WHEREAS, parks and recreation are an integral part of our lives in Holly Springs, as recognized by Town Council
through its designation of “Vibrant Community” as one of the town’s strategic initiatives; and

WHEREAS, parks and recreation are vitally important to establishing and maintaining quality of life, ensuring the
health of all residents, and contributing to the economic and environmental well-being of a community and region; and

WHEREAS, parks and recreation promote time spent in nature, which positively impacts mental health by increasing
cognitive performance and well-being; and

WHEREAS, parks and recreation encourage physical activities by providing space for popular sports, indoor and
outdoor fitness opportunities, walking trails, and many other activities designed to promote active and healthy lifestyles;
and

WHEREAS, parks and recreation programming and education activities, such as out-of-school time programming,
youth sports, and environmental education, are critical to childhood development; and

WHEREAS, parks and recreation increase a community’s economic prosperity through increased property values,
expansion of the local tax base, increased tourism, the attraction and retention of businesses, and crime reduction; and

WHEREAS, parks and natural recreation areas improve water quality, protect groundwater, prevent flooding, improve
the quality of the air we breathe, provide vegetative buffers to development, and produce habitat for wildlife; and

WHEREAS, Holly Springs recognizes the benefits derived from parks and recreation programs, facilities, services, and
resources;

NOW, THEREFORE, I, Mike Kondratick, Mayor of the Town of Holly Springs, North Carolina, do hereby proclaim
July 2026 as


                               Parks and Recreation Month
in Holly Springs and commend its observance to all residents.

                                                          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set
                                                          my hand and caused the seal of the Town of
                                                          Holly Springs, North Carolina, to be affixed on
                                                          this 16th day of June, 2026.




                                                          Michael D. Kondratick, Mayor


                                                                                                                      Page 7 of 229


                                       Holly Springs Town Council
                                            Town Council Meeting Agenda Cover Sheet


                                                                         Agenda Item#: 8.
New Business
Title: Festival Street Design Project Overview
Strategic Priority Area: Growth Management & Economic Vitality
Vibrant Community
Staff Resource: Sean Ryan, Development Services


Action(s):

    • Receive update from staff and the consultant team (Bolton & Menk) on the Avent Ferry
      Road Festival Street concept design project.

Explanation:

    • The concept development for the Avent Ferry Road Festival Street began in May and
      survey work is currently underway.
    • The project timeline includes four planned engagements with Town Council to provide
      updates, gather feedback, and guide key project decisions.
    • This initial discussion will introduce the project scope, schedule, and major milestones
      while providing an opportunity for Council to share its vision for the corridor.
    • Project consultant Bolton & Menk will present inspirational examples of potential roadway
      design features to help facilitate discussion and identify elements Council would like to
      consider as design concepts are developed.

Background:

    • In 2023, the Holly Springs Town Council adopted the Downtown Area Plan which
      describes the community’s vision for the Downtown, with a specific focus on the
      Downtown core. The Plan aspires to create a downtown where people can live, work and
      be entertained.
    • The Downtown Area Plan identified five key community priorities for Downtown, including
      the development of a Festival Street on Avent Ferry Road.
    • The Festival Street concept is a redesign of portions of Avent Ferry Road to emphasize
      the pedestrian experience and allow for the closure to vehicular traffic during events.
      Through changes in paving materials and enhanced landscaping, the Festival Street can
      become an adaptive place to better connect Main Street and the Cultural Center.
    • The Avent Ferry Road Festival Street is anticipated to have the following design
      characteristics:
          o A curbless street design to allow better flexibility as a public space.
          o Retractable bollards, entry features, or other elements to separate the Festival
            Street from vehicular travel and to protect pedestrians at all points of entry.
          o Paving materials and other street features that delineate vehicular areas and
                                                                   Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                    June 16, 2026

                                                                                        Page 8 of 229


            create a low-speed street environment when vehicular use is allowed.
          o Paving materials and patterns and vegetation that provide a streetscape with a
            unique look and feel that also complements and reinforces the downtown brand.
          o Enhanced landscaping that provides a large tree canopy and enhances stormwater
            treatment.
          o Ability to accommodate periodic closures to vehicular traffic for events such as
            outdoor markets, parades, or community celebrations while maintaining the ability
            for the street to serve local business, institutional uses, and public parking lots,
            including designated on-street parking areas, when the street is not closed to
            vehicles.
          o Street lighting, overhead string lights, gathering spaces and seating, and public
            art.
          o Intersection improvements at Avent Ferry Road and W. Ballentine Street to
            improve pedestrian safety.
          o Other elements as determined through the design development process.
    • Bolton & Menk, Inc. was awarded the contract for this project on March 17, 2026.

Funding Source(s):
Attachment(s):
1.   FestivalStreetMap




                                                                    Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                     June 16, 2026

                                                                                         Page 9 of 229


Project Area Map

Page 10 of 229


                                       Holly Springs Town Council
                                            Town Council Meeting Agenda Cover Sheet


                                                                         Agenda Item#: 9.
Consent Agenda
Title: May 19, 2026 Business Meeting and May 12 and 21, 2026 Workshop Meeting Minutes
Strategic Priority Area: Organizational Excellence
Staff Resource: Linda McKinney, Town Clerk


Action(s):
Approve the minutes of the May 19, 2026 Business Meeting and the May 12 and May 21, 2026
Workshop Meetings.
Explanation:

    • Minutes in draft form are attached for the Council's review.
    • If there are any corrections, please notify the Town Clerk in advance of Tuesday night's
      meeting so that corrected versions of the draft minutes can be circulated for review
      before adoption of the Consent Agenda.

Background:
Funding Source(s):
N/A
Attachment(s):
1.   5.19.26 minutes - DRAFT
2.   5.12.26 workshop minutes - DRAFT
3.   5.21.26 budget workshop minutes - DRAFT




                                                                    Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                     June 16, 2026

                                                                                        Page 11 of 229


                                                                              Holly Springs Town Council
                                                                          7:00 PM Tuesday, May 19, 2026
                                                                                         Regular Meeting
                                                              Holly Springs Town Hall Council Chambers
                                                                             128 S. Main Street, 2nd Floor

                                                MINUTES

The Holly Springs Town Council met in regular session on Tuesday, May 19, 2026. Mayor Kondratick
presided, calling the meeting to order at 7 p.m. A quorum was established as the Mayor and five
Council members were present in the Chamber as the meeting opened.

Council Members Present: Mayor Mike Kondratick, Mayor Pro Tem Annie Drees, Council members
Danielle Hewetson, Chris Deshazor, Sarah Larson, and Kara Foster.

Council Members Absent: none.

Staff Members Present in Chambers: Randy Harrington, Town Manager; Scott Chase and Daniel
Weeks, Assistant Town Managers; John Schifano, Town Attorney; Linda McKinney, Town Clerk
(recording the minutes); Jesse Dixon, IT; Corey Petersohn and MaryBeth Spoehr, Budget and
Sustainability; Cassie Hack, Director, Communications and Marketing; LeeAnn Plumer, Director, Parks
& Recreation; Adam Huffman, Parks & Recreation; Kendra Parrish, Executive Director of Utilities and
Infrastructure; Carrie Mitchell, Utilities and Infrastructure; Tina Stroupe, Finance Director; Chris Hills,
Director of Development Services; Conor Ryan, Elliot Blonshine, and Sarah Sularz, Development
Services; Irena Krstanovic, Director, Economic Development; Neal Duncan, Economic Development;
LeRoy Smith, Fire Chief; Paul Liquorie, Police Chief.

2. and 3. The Pledge of Allegiance was recited followed by an invocation by Mark Savoldi of The Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.

4. Agenda Adjustment: The May 19, 2026, meeting agenda was adopted with changes, if any, as listed:
none

               Motion: Drees
               Second: Hewetson
               Vote: Unanimous

Public Comment: At this time, an opportunity was provided for members of the audience who had
registered to speak to address the Council, and the Clerk was asked for any written comments
received prior to the meeting.

The following public comments were received in person:

Frank Malinski, of Harnett County, on behalf of Wake Co Fraternal Order of Police, asked Council to
approve a resolution to name the bridge on Holly Springs Road over 540 after Sheriff’s Deputy, Mark
Tucker. He outlined Deputy Tucker’s accomplishments and the reason for the request.

Craig Ashby, 201 Highland Springs Lane, said he was here to discuss the pricing of Parks and
Recreation senior tours. He said some of them require nights in a hotel. The tours have been increasing
in price and they are now unaffordable. He gave statistics to support his position. He also said the
surcharge for non-residents was excessive. He compared the price to that of St. Bernadette’s trip.
May 19, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 1 of 9
                                                                                                       Page 12 of 229


The following public comments were received in writing: One comment from Matt Bontrager regarding
bicycle bells; one comment from Jack Deinhart regarding license plate readers; one comment from
Brie Cooper regarding noise in 12Oaks; one comment from Rajh Reddy regarding noise in Trinity Creek;
one comment from Olya Panus regarding Carolina Springs Park; one comment from Jerry Bowman
regarding taxes; one anonymous comment regarding fees; one comment from Rachel Knapp regarding
traffic, construction, and parks; one comment from Craig Ashby regarding parking at Sugg Farm Park.

Recognitions
5. Pride Month Proclamation
        Mayor Kondratick proclaimed June as Pride Month in Holly Springs and presented the
proclamation to the Pride of Holly Springs Committee. Donna Friend listed some Pride events coming
up in Holly Springs.

6. Safe Boating Week Proclamation
        Mayor Kondratick proclaimed May 16 – 22 as Safe Boating Week in Holly Springs and presented
the proclamation to Kerry Holt-Johnson, Vice Commander of the Coast Guard Auxiliary.

7. Public Works Week Proclamation
        Paige Scott, Director of Public Works, and Kendra Parrish, Executive Director of Utilities and
Infrastructure, brought out their team. Ms. Scott said the theme for Public Works Week 2026 is Rooted
in Service, Powered by Community. She outlined statistics for her department. Ms. Parrish outlined
parts of her department considered under Public Works. Mayor Kondratick proclaimed May 17 – 23 as
Public Works Week in Holly Springs and presented the proclamation to members of the Public Works
staff.

Consent Agenda

        The Council passed a motion to approve all items on the Consent Agenda. The motion carried
following a motion by Mayor Pro Tem Drees, a second by Council member Hewetson, and a unanimous
vote. The following actions were affected:

       8. Minutes of April 14, 2026 Workshop Meeting and April 21, 2026 Business Meeting – The
Council approved the minutes of the April 14, 2026 Workshop Meeting and the April 21, 2026 Business
Meeting.

      9. Minutes from November 10, 2025 Closed Session – The Council approved and unsealed the
minutes of the November 10, 2025 Closed Session.

     10. Monthly Budget Amendments – Council received the Manager’s monthly budget
amendment report.
       A copy of the budget amendment is attached to these minutes.

       11. Americans with Disabilities Act Transition Plan Update Contract - The Council awarded a
contract to WT Group AEC, Inc. in the amount of $226,951 to complete an update to the Town of Holly
Springs ADA Transition Plan.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
12. Voluntary Annexation A25-12 6200 Windy Farm Lane (Evanston)
        Sarah Lipkin Sularz, Development Services, said this was to consider the annexation of +/-
53.868 acres located at 6200 Windy Farm Lane. She said the Resolution of Sufficiency for this
May 19, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 2 of 9
                                                                                                     Page 13 of 229


annexation was adopted by Council on March 17, 2026. It was continued due to the transfer of
ownership of the property. She showed where the property is located in the ETJ and said it is
contiguous to town limits and meets the requirements for annexation.

       Mayor Kondratick opened the public hearing and the following input was received: none.

       Mayor Kondratick closed the public hearing.

       Action: Motion to adopt Annexation Ordinance A25-12.
       Motion: Hewetson
       Second: Larson
       Vote: unanimous
       A copy of Annexation Ordinance A25-12 is attached to these minutes.

 13. Semiannual UDO Text Amendments 26-UDO-01
         Cheryl Caines, Development Services, said this item was to conduct the public hearing for the
proposed Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) amendments. Tonight will be the public hearing, then
the amendments will go to the Planning Board, and come back to Council for a vote at their June 2nd
meeting. She said the UDO is a living document with amendments suggested semi-annually to respond
to policy updates, clarify interpretations, and respond to changes in community needs and desires.
         Ms. Caines outlined the proposed amendments. The majority are minor changes or
clarifications, but the others are: conversion of Special Use Permits to Conditional Zoning Districts;
bars & fueling stations in Neighborhood Mixed Use districts; additional standards for drive through and
car wash uses; requirements for lots fronting open space; electric vehicle parking requirements at
schools; and retaining wall design. She explained the changes regarding uses with community impacts
such as group homes, childcare centers, community support facilities, major infrastructure utilities,
etc. She explained the process change and its benefits of enhanced citizen participation, the ability to
address community wide impacts, and to propose changes responding to concerns.
         Ms. Caines said that currently bars and tasting rooms require Conditional Zoning in a mixed-
use neighborhood and fueling stations are not allowed. The proposed change would permit bars under
a Permitted Use with additional Standards, and fueling stations with Conditional Zoning. Bars would be
limited to 2,500 square feet with outdoor areas adjacent to residential requiring a six-foot opaque
fence. Fueling stations would be limited to five fuel pumps and could not be placed within 300 feet of
thoroughfare streets. She explained the drive through and car wash standards that prohibit circulation
in front of buildings and prohibit accessory structures in front or corner yards.
         Ms. Caines said that currently schools are subject to commercial and office standards
regarding EV parking. The new standard would require 10% of staff parking spaces be EVSE-Ready,
rather than 10% of all spaces in a 20-50 space parking lot. In larger lots, 20% of staff spaces must be
EVSE-ready, and two of those shall be EVSE.
         Council member Deshazor asked if the 5 fuel pumps meant five nozzles. Ms. Caines said it
would be 10 nozzles – one on each side of the pump.

       Mayor Kondratick opened the public hearing, and the following input was received: none.

         Mayor Kondratick closed the public hearing
        MPT Drees said she is glad to see the EV parking for schools and the Data Centers changes. She
thinks the Special Use Permit change is good, but she is worried about the fee impact, particularly for
community support facilities, because they are often nonprofits.
        Council member Deshazor said, on the bars, it is important to note that this is not a restaurant,
and he felt that was important to point out, especially for Planning Board.


May 19, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 3 of 9
                                                                                                     Page 14 of 229


       Ms. Caines said that next steps are that the amendments will be forwarded to the Planning
Board for review and recommendation at their May meeting.

14. Fiscal Year 2026-27 Recommended Budget Public Hearing
        Corey Petersohn, Director of the Office of Budget, Innovation, and Strategy, said this item was
the public hearing for the Fiscal Year 2026-27 recommended budget. He said that key takeaways are a
total budget of $139,226,267 with the same low property tax rate of 34.35 cents per $100 of valuation.
He said this is currently the lowest recommended tax rate in Wake County. Strategic investments
include managing traffic & improving mobility; enhancing parks, facilities, and events; and managing
growth and protecting the environment. Nineteen new positions are recommended to support strategic
goals. He outlined the fee increases to garbage and recycling pickup, which are due to GFL increasing
their charges to the Town. He said there is no increase to the yard waste pickup. Water, Wastewater
and Stormwater fees are increasing by about 46 cents per day, for the average residential user. He
explained that utility fees go to pay for the utilities, not to make a profit. These fees are increasing as we
invest in projects to provide safe drinking water in compliance with all federal regulations with
advanced wastewater treatment to protect our natural environment and to meet capacity needs for
approved development and provide infrastructure for the future. He outlined five projects for water
and wastewater, including the expansion of the Utley Creek Water Reclamation Facility, the TriRiver
Water Filtration Facility expansion and Holly Springs & Fuquay-Varina conveyance line partnership to
bring the water from the Cape Fear River, and two additional elevated water tanks and connections.
These investments provide safe drinking water, advanced wastewater treatment to protect the
environment, and increased capacity. The budget also includes funds for a rate study to be sure our
rates are fair.

        Mayor Kondratick opened the public hearing, and the following input was received: none.

        Mayor Kondratick closed the public hearing

Mr. Petersohn said that next steps are the workshop on Thursday at the Law Enforcement Center with
adoption scheduled for June 2nd.

15. Voluntary Annexation A25-08 Twin Springs
         Sarah Sularz, Development Services, said that this annexation was advertised and the
Resolution of Sufficiency was adopted on January 20, 2026. The public hearing was advertised and has
been tabled to try to coordinate with the timing of the Fuquay-Varina case, as the project straddles the
two jurisdictions. Due to Fuquay-Varina’s process, this is being delayed and staff wishes to table it
until further notice, at which time it will be readvertised.

        Action: Motion to table Annexation Ordinance A25-08 until further notice.

        Motion: Hewetson
        Second: Drees
        Vote: unanimous

NEW BUSINESS

16. Powell Place Rezoning 25-REZ-02 and Development Agreement
       Conor Ryan, Development Services, said this item was a rezoning for the property at 7051 and
7121 Rouse Road, and the Development Agreement for the project. He said the public hearing was held
on January 20, 2026 and, following adjustments to address the public’s concerns, it went to Planning
Board on April 28th and was now before Council for a decision. He showed where the property is, next
May 19, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 4 of 9
                                                                                                          Page 15 of 229


to Honeycutt Farm and said this was a Type 2 development, so the rezoning would be considered prior
to Major Subdivision, which would be a quasi-judicial decision. He said they are seeking a Conditional
Zoning District and explained the goals for such a zoning. He said the property is designated Mixed
Residential Neighborhood and Natural Area on the Land Use and Character Plan, and zoned Rural
Residential. He outlined the project history, from the initial neighborhood meeting in August of 2024 to
the Planning Board meeting last month.
         Mr. Ryan said that at the Public Hearing the key topics were road improvements needed on
Rouse Road and Piney Grove Wilbon Road. He said that changes made since the public hearing were
additional roadway widening along Rouse Road for approximately 450 feet east of the site drive;
installation of right- and left-turn lanes into the site; developer request to NCDOT that the speed on
Rouse Road be reduced to 35 miles per hour; and a commitment of $100,000 for the future installation
of traffic signal at the intersection of Piney Grove Wilbon and Rouse Road. Staff considers this a
success of the Public Hearing process where the applicant made adjustments according to the
feedback received at the public hearing.
         Mr. Ryan showed how the project had evolved since the first submittal, including the road
improvements and changes in product type. He said the project will have 42 front-loaded detached
dwellings, 13 rear-loaded detached dwellings, and 42 attached dwellings. There would be a centralized
active recreation area incorporating the existing pond, enhanced Type A buffering around the
perimeter, and additional offsite road improvements. He outlined the proposed standards that differ
from the UDO including increased buffers, increased setbacks, lower density, and building façade
design standards.
         Elliot Blonshine, Development Services, said the site would be served by water and sewer with
connections in Rouse Road and to the stubs at Honeycutt Farm, and extending along Rouse Road. He
said the Utility allocation elements were constructed wetlands and LEED Certification. He showed the
streets layout and the road widening along Rouse Road. He showed the sidepath that would connect to
Honeycutt Farm and the three access points / stubs. He said there were eight study intersections in the
traffic study, and the required improvements were three turn lanes. After the public hearing the
developer offered an additional 450 feet of road widening, two additional turn lanes on Rouse Road and
$100,000 fee-in-lieu toward a traffic signal.
         Sara Kempin, Planning Board representative, said that the Planning Board voted to recommend
approval with a vote of 6 – 1 with two absent. The one dissenting vote had concerns about the
curvature of the road leading to the entrance on Rouse Road.
         Mr. Ryan said that staff analysis found that the housing products and site design are consistent
with the UDO and the Comprehensive Plan, the Conditional Zoning District standards create small
design enhancements and increased buffering, and the additional commitments to road
improvements per the Public Hearing comments are consistent with the requirements of the UDO,
CTP, and Traffic Study Policy. Staff recommends approval.
         Jason Barron, Morningstar Law, introduced his team: Jimmy Gaskins, KB Homes, and Lisa
Lundeen, Traffic Engineer. Speaking for the applicant, Mr. Barron said this case is a good example of
the benefits of the change of process. He said this project is the right scale for the community. It aligns
with growth patterns, provides housing diversity, complements Honeycutt, improves connectivity, and
provides a measurable public benefit. He gave details on the three housing types and the open space
and amenities. He said the homes would be priced to be more attainable. He said they heard the public
concerns and responded to them with their commitments to additional road widening, traffic signal
fee-in-lieu, and requesting that NCDOT reduce the speed limit. He outlined the road widening, turn
lane construction, repaving, and other traffic improvements committed to by the developer.
         Mr. Baron summed up by repeating that this project is the right scale in the right place, is
aligned with the Comprehensive Plan, provides housing diversity, and public benefits.
         Council member Deshazor said there is only one entrance and it is close to the S curve on
Rouse. He asked if there were discussions for a second entrance. Mr. Baron said there were limited
options due to the limited road frontage. That is why they added the turn lanes. MPT Drees asked if the
May 19, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 5 of 9
                                                                                                       Page 16 of 229


small pond being filled in was a natural pond. Mr. Baron said both ponds on the property are man-
made ponds. Mayor Kondratick asked what the distance was between the end of the road widening
and the intersection of Rouse and Piney Grove Wilbon Rd. Mr. Baron said it was probably 800 feet.
Mayor Kondratick asked how many additional trips would be added by this development. Lisa Lundeen,
Traffic Engineer, said AM Peak is 40 trips and about 52 PM peak. Council member Larson asked if there
was any traffic calming as you proceed north. Mr. Baron said there was no traffic calming toward
Honeycutt, but the way the site is designed provides natural traffic calming by the curves in the
neighborhood. Council member Hewetson said she appreciates that they were heard on the road
improvements on Rouse Road. MPT Drees asked how many cars would exit through Honeycutt. Ms.
Lundeen said about 7% would go that way and there is adequate capacity to handle that amount of
traffic. Council member Foster asked at what point the traffic signal would be triggered. Ms. Lundeen
said she doesn’t know when, but she thinks it will be triggered in the future.
         Randy Harrington, Town Manager, said that on DOT roads, you have to meet certain warrants.
At this point it would not trigger a signal, but sometime down the road it would. But only NCDOT can
make that decision. Council member Foster asked if there was a chance that NCDOT would deny the
35 mph speed limit request. Ms. Lundeen there is a chance, but they are actively coordinating with
them. John Schifnao, Town Attorney, said that within town limits, the default is 35 miles per hour.
Council and DOT have to agree to set a speed limit higher than 35.
         Council member Deshazor asked about the calculation of density and whether it included the
undevelopable land. Mr. Baron said it did not.
         Mayor Kondratick asked if Wake County Public Schools took Evanston into account when
saying there was adequate capacity. Mr. Ryan said they take into account projects that are approved,
but not ones that are under review. He is not sure whether Evanston was considered. Council member
Deshazor said we need to discuss with the schools about considering projects that are under review so
that we get an accurate count. Council member Hewetson said many schools in our area are going
from 4 tracts to 1 because enrollment is down. But it is worth a conversation.
         Mayor Kondratick asked about per unit pricing. Mr. Baron said they project townhomes in the
$300,000s to low $400,000s and the singles from mid $400,000s to low $500,000s. Council member
Larson said she appreciates bringing in the ranch style and first floor masters as people age in place.
         Council member Deshazor said he appreciates the work that was done, especially the road
improvements. But he has a major concern in that area. We’re doing a small portion of Rouse and
adding traffic concerns him. Piney Grove Wilbon is horrid right now and we need to be thoughtful about
that. He is a no on this because of roads. MPT Drees said she agrees with Council member Deshazor,
because the DOT safety rating is red right at that curve. They won’t be able to see well She thinks a lot
of drivers will cut through Honeycutt Farm and make that neighborhood less safe. Mayor Kondratick
said they have not had a chance to dive into what a more comprehensive solution is going to look like in
this corridor, including down to the Rouse Rd. intersection. Council member Foster said she agrees
with what everyone has said. Without that signal and this being the only exit point, adding all that extra
traffic concerns her. She appreciates all the housing types, but in that area, without connections for
other modes of transportation, traffic will be a challenge. Council member Hewetson said that given
that we have all mentioned the response to our feedback in January, which was well received and they
did what we asked for, she would recommend deferring until after the Piney Grove Wilbon meeting,
when we have discussed the matter. Rather than vote no, she recommends a deferral. MPT Drees said
she doesn’t see issue going away after meeting and she would still be a no. Council member Larson
said she agrees with Council member Hewetson. The applicant has gone over and beyond to take our
feedback into consideration. She thinks for the size of the development, this is more than paying their
fair share. There is a lot coming into that area and we should look at it holistically and take a macro
view. This will push us towards getting the light and other improvements that are needed in this area.

      Action 1: Motion to adopt Rezoning Ordinance RZ26-03 to adopt the Plan Consistency
Statement, Statement of Reasonableness, and approve 25-REZ-02 Powell Place.
May 19, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 6 of 9
                                                                                                      Page 17 of 229


       Motion: Larson
       Second: Hewetson
       Vote:
       Aye: Larson, Hewetson
       Nay: Deshazor, Foster, Drees
       The motion failed.

Council member Deshazor said he would be ok with a deferral. He understands Council member
Larson’s comment about seeing the macro level – he’s been saying that for a long time. But Rouse Rd.
is two lanes with tight shoulders. We need to understand how the rest of that is going to happen. The S-
curve is very dangerous. Also, he thinks about fire and rescue vehicles getting through those roads. He
is concerned about people cutting through Honeycutt Farm. He said that for him, if we can look at that
and get more detail and answer those questions it could become a yes. Council member Foster said
she thinks this project will be good for housing affordability, but there is not a good option to reduce
traffic. She would like to see something that shows how that would work. Council member Hewetson
said if you put this in Fuquay Varina, they can live more affordably and will still drive up Piney Grove
Wilbon through Holly Springs. She said half a signal and the road widening is worth it for her. Council
member Foster said so many people are concerned about growth and traffic and they will ask us how
this benefits them. Council member Larson said looking at our Future Land Use Plan and Strategic
Plan, this fits the need for affordable housing. She appreciates staff and developer’s work and pushing
it down the line will add expenses. There are other developments coming that will benefit the area with
further improvements.

       Action 1: Motion defer consideration of 25-REZ-02 Powell Place to July 21, 2026.

       Motion: Larson
       Second: Hewetson
       Vote:
       Aye: Larson, Hewetson, Deshazor, Foster
       Nay: Drees
       The motion passes.

17. Committee and Board Appointments
       Linda McKinney, Town Clerk, said that applications for Parks and Recreation Advisory
Committee (PRAC) and Tree Advisory Committee (TAC) went live on the website at the beginning of
February and closed the first Monday in April. PRAC has three openings and sixteen applications were
received. Council discussed their nominations for PRAC.

 Action 1: Motion to appoint Malinda Walker, Fred Stehle, and Thomas Rayle to three-year terms on the
Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee from July 1, 2026 to June 30, 2029.

       Motion: Hewetson
       Second: Larson
       Vote: unanimous

Tree Advisory Committee has four openings with staggered terms to shift them to the new schedule
that aligns with Planning Board. Two openings are for terms ending February 29, 2028 and two for terms
ending February 28, 2029. In addition, there is one opening for a Junior Member for one year. Council
discussed their nominations for TAC.


May 19, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 7 of 9
                                                                                                     Page 18 of 229


Action 2: Motion to appoint Robin Haney and Autum Dean to the Tree Advisory Committee for terms
ending February 29, 2028.
        Motion: Drees
        Second: Deshazor
        Vote: unanimous

Action 3: Motion to appoint Marissa Parker and Tom Joyce to the Tree Advisory Committee for terms
ending February 28, 2029.
        Motion: Drees
        Second: Deshazor
        Vote: unanimous

Action 4: Motion to appoint Delila Devitt as Junior Member of the Tree Advisory Committee with a term
ending June 30, 2027.
        Motion: Drees
        Second: Deshazor
        Vote: unanimous

OTHER BUSINESS
         Council member Foster said she appreciates everyone who applied to the boards and the effort
staff has put into the items tonight. She appreciates the work the developers put in on their projects.
         Council member Hewetson said she is always appreciative of board applications. We get so
many wonderful passionate applicants. It is difficult to choose. She said she wanted to talk about the
naming of the bridge. Council directed staff to add it to the June 16th meeting for consideration. She
said Memorial day is coming up and she thanked those who made the ultimate sacrifice. Mayor
Kondratick echoed that. And he said event season is coming up and that creates a lot of work for staff
and he thanked them for their efforts. The FFA club at Felton Grove had a market event that was great.
         MPT Drees asked if Council could ask town staff to look into the senior trips and compare us to
other communities and track attendance over time. She said that people can start renting boats at
Bass Lake on Memorial Day so wear your life vests. She thanked Mayor Kondratick for the Pride
Proclamation. On the applications for committees, she used her matrix to make her decision, and it’s
tough but she tries to be measured and logical about it. Thanks to everyone who applied. She said that
Wake County has Library on the Go. She asked if we could reach out to them and see if they will come
and do an event in Holly Springs this summer while our library is closed.
         Council member Deshazor wished everyone Happy Memorial Day, and Happy Mother’s Day to
all the mothers. He said he appreciated the tour of the Ops Campus. Regarding the budget, he said he
appreciated the presentation from Mr. Petersohn. He said water rates are something he hears about.
But people also say they want us to stop growth and development until we build the infrastructure.
That is what we are doing with the water infrastructure. The Legislative Action Committee went to DC
and asked for $2 million for this project. We also sat with state legislators and made that request. We
are working for this. It is a hard pill to swallow, but it is needed for our future. Last, UNC Rex Hospital
will be lit up purple for the week in honor of the Holly Springs High School teams in championships.
         Council member Larson said that while rain is desperately needed, there are events this
weekend: Summer at the Springs, the opening of Salamanders season. Watch the weather and bring
an umbrella, but come out. Residents are encouraged to fill out the landfill survey from the County.
And tomorrow we are touring the Sanford water plant.
         Mayor Kondratick said in terms of events, there is a community conversation on June 1st at 6 pm
at Oasis Church to discuss the Piney Grove Wilbon corridor. Anyone from that area or who is interested
in this area is welcome. Council, staff, CAMPO and others will be there to walk residents through the
challenges we have and options for moving forward in that area.


May 19, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 8 of 9
                                                                                                       Page 19 of 229


MANAGER’S REPORT
       Randy Harrington, Town Manager, said on Memorial Day town offices will be closed. There is a
one-day delay on garbage and recycling. The Hunt Center and Cultural Center will be closed as well as
the Yard Waste Center. But the Hopper will be on its regular schedule.

CLOSED SESSION: Council entered into closed session pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(5) to
instruct the negotiating agents on behalf of the town, with a motion by Council member Deshazor and
a second by Council member Hewetson and a unanimous vote.

Motion to leave closed session was made by Council member Deshazor with a second by Council
member Hewetson and a unanimous vote.

Adjournment: Council member Deshazor made a motion to adjourn at 9:50 pm. It was seconded by
Council member Hewetson and passed with a unanimous vote.

Respectfully submitted on Tuesday, June 16, 2026.

___________________________________
Linda C. McKinney, Town Clerk
Addenda pages as referenced in these minutes follow and are a part of the official record.




May 19, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 9 of 9
                                                                                                  Page 20 of 229


Mayor and Council Workshop
6 p.m. May 12, 2026
Council Chamber, and livestream


                                            MINUTES

The Holly Springs Town Council met in a workshop session on Tuesday, May 12, 2026 in the
Council Chamber and via livestreaming. Mayor Kondratick presided, calling the meeting to order at
6:00 p.m. A quorum was established as the Mayor and four Council members were present in the
room as the meeting opened.

Council Members Present in the room: Mayor Mike Kondratick, Mayor Pro Tem Annie Drees,
Council members Chris Deshazor, Danielle Hewetson, and Sarah Larson.

Council Members Absent: Council member Kara Foster.

Staff Members Present in the room: Randy Harrington, Town Manager; Linda McKinney, Town Clerk
(recording the minutes); Daniel Weeks, Assistant Town Manager; Scott Chase, Assistant Town
Manager; John Schifano, Town Attorney; Kameron Womack, IT; Corey Petersohn, Director, Office of
Budget, Innovation, and Strategy; MaryBeth Spoehr, Budget, Innovation, and Strategy; Cassie Hack,
Director, Communications and Marketing; Tamara Ward and Kelly Miller, Communications and
Marketing; Chris Hills, Director Development Services; Kendra Parrish, Executive Director of
Utilities and Infrastructure; Rachel Ingham, Michael Leonas, and Tim Athy, Utilities &
Infrastructure; LeeAnn Plumer, Director, Parks & Recreation; George Brown, Director, Office of
Customer Care; Paige Scott, Director, Public Works; Paul Liquorie, Police Chief; LeRoy Smith, Fire
Chief; Tina Stroupe, Finance Director; Sabrina McDonald, Director of Human Resources; Irena
Krstanovic, Director of Economic Development; Jeff Wilson, Director IT.

Mayor Kondratick called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

1.      Recommended Budget Presentation: Randy Harrington, Town Manager, gave an overview
of the Manager’s Recommended Budget for FY26-27. He highlighted the fact that the budget is
aligned with Community feedback and the Strategic Plan. He said he would discuss the following
areas: aligning with community feedback; key budget drivers; managing traffic and improving
mobility; enhancing parks, facilities and events; managing growth and protecting the environment.
        Mr. Harrington said the recent community survey contained several positive things such as
exceeding the national average for satisfaction in 44 out of 46 categories. But he said staff is
listening to residents about the oportunities for improvement, especially management of traffic,
and management and planning of growth. Other notable findings are that Community Safety was
rated as the most important strategic goal, and residents appreciate the investments in
recreational and cultural offerings. He outlined the updates to the Strategic Plan, which is the
blueprint for the budget.
        Mr. Harrington said that key budget drivers are to recommend a balanced budget that is
affordable and strategic, maintaining the same low property tax rate of 34.35 cents per $100
valuation. Key areas of investment include managing traffic and improving mobility; enhancing
parks, facilities, and events; and managing growth and protecting the environment.
        Mr. Harrington outlined the revenue sources and expense categories in the recommended
budget of $139,226,267. He showed how Holly Springs is currently the second lowest tax rate in

May 12, 2026 Town Council Workshop
Page 1 of 5
                                                                                              Page 21 of 229


Wake County, and about six cents below the municipal average rate. He outlined recommended
new expenditures according to Strategic Priorities categories. He explained the new expenditures
due to strategic priorities. He explained the recommended personnel investments which include
19 new positions to support facilities and programs. It also seeks to maintain us as an Employer of
Choice by supporting mandatory increases to employer contributions for the NC Local
Government Employee Retirement System, a 5% health insurance premium increase, and merit.
         Mr. Harrington outlined the progress on Holly Springs Road Widening and the Intelligent
Transportation System, and explained how the budget supported these projects. He said the Holly
Springs Hopper is a success and 65% of its operating costs are covered by grant funds. The
recommended budget includes funding to expand the service hours. There is also funding for
greenways and pedestrian safety to enhance other modes of transportation.
         Mr. Harrington said that enhancing parks, facilities and events includes Eagles Landing
Park coming soon. The budget includes fundings for seven positions in anticipation of the park
opening in late 2027. Other facilities getting investments are the North Main Athletic Complex, the
Cultural Center, and the Operations Campus. Support for special events includes the recently
launched 150th website, celebrating moments throughout 2026 and culminating in the Holly-
Hoopla birthday bash in May of 2027, and additional support for special events and senior
programming.
         Mr. Harrington said that investments around managing growth and protecting the
environment include building a new fire station at Rex Road to serve the fast-growing southwest
part of town. This would be design phase, with construction anticipated to begin in 2028. Water and
wastewater investments include the Utley Creek Water Reclamation Facility expansion and the
TriRiver Water Filtration facility expansion. He said he is recommending a rate adjustment of
$11.89 for the typical residential home. The total water and wastewater bill for 4,000 gallons of
water would be $111.30 per month. An equivalent in bottled water would cost $5,040, not including
shipping or wastewater expenses, making this a bargain for our residents. Stormwater
infrastructure aims to protect property and the environment. An additional $2.5 million of needed
stormwater system repairs and improvements have been identified. The current fee of $5.20 per
month has not changed since January of 2021 and he recommends a fee adjustment to $6.50 per
month to fund these critical investments. He outlined what the average monthly residential fee
adjustment would be, noting no change to the property tax rate from Holly Springs, although Wake
County is proposing an increase in their rate.
    Mr. Harrington concluded that this budget has no property tax increase; has utility and
stormwater fee adjustments to protect the environment and secure our water future. There are
strategic investments in managing traffic, enhancing facilities and managing growth while
protecting the environment. There are 19 new positions recommended to support strategic goals
and growth. He outlined next steps and informed the public that the public hearing for the budget
would be held on May 19th, the budget workshop on Thursday, May 21st, and budget adoption
scheduled for June 2nd.
         He said there were 3 things he wanted to talk about at the workshop: Holly Springs Hopper,
Round-Up Program, future Transportation Bond. He asked the Council to email any questions by
Monday so that they can be answered prior to the workshop.

Five-minute recess

2.      2025 Water Quality Report and Other Water Updates
        Rachel Ingham, Utilities and Infrastructure, said the purpose of this was to provide Council
and the public an overview of the 2025 Water Quality Report and give an update on drought
conditions. She said Holly Springs is committed to providing clean drinking water and is fully

May 12, 2026 Town Council Workshop
Page 2 of 5
                                                                                                 Page 22 of 229


compliant. She said the EPA requires a Water Quality Report which covers things the EPA wants the
public to know. It includes information about lead in drinking water, the source of drinking water
and other water quality information. She outlined the way the EPA ensures safe drinking water
standards through National Primary Drinking Water Regulations and the Safe Drinking Water Act.
         Ms. Ingham said Holly Springs’ water comes from the Cape Fear River. We currently have
up to 5 Million Gallons a Day (“MGD”) from Harnett Regional Water with an additional 5 MGD from
them in the future. The TriRiver water treatment plant in Sanford will provide an additional 4 MGD.
We are permitted to take 2 MGD from Jordan Lake.
         Ms. Ingham said to put things in perspective as she discusses contaminants, Parts Per
Billion (“PPB”) would be the equivalent of a 4-inch hamburger in a chain of hamburgers circling the
earth at the equator 2.5 times. Parts Per Trillion (“PPT”) is the equivalent of a one-foot square floor
tile on a floor the size of Indiana. She said that emerging contaminants right now include Per- and
Polyfluoroaklyl Substances, commonly known as PFAS. These are manufactured chemicals used
since the 1950s that are found in many common household items. They appear in drinking water at
levels of 4-10 PPT, in carpets at levels of 471,000 PPT, in cosmetics at levels of 10,500,000 PPT, and
in food packaging at levels of 876,000,000 PPT.
         Ms. Ingham said that drinking water regulations are a process that takes years. In 2023 -
2025 PFAS sampling took place to help the EPA determine if regulation was needed. In 2024 a
National Primary Drinking Water Regulation set maximum contaminant levels (MCLs) for PFAS, but
enforcement does not happen at that point. By 2027 Initial Monitoring and reporting of PFAS levels
is required to be completed. Next steps include the implementation of solutions to reduce PFAS in
water and the MCLs being fully enforceable in 2029 and beyond, although that is expected to be
shifted to 2030. Holly Springs’ supplier, Harnett Regional Water, is currently testing, and studying
engineering solutions to remove PFAS. The TriRiver Water treatment plant is under construction
and will offer granular activated carbon, which is the best treatment method to remove PFAS.
         Ms. Ingham said an emerging contaminant that is behind PFAS in the process is 1,4-
dioxane, a manufactured chemical used as an industrial solvent in paints, adhesives, detergents,
and personal care products. It has been studied since 2013 but there are no current drinking water
standards. This is due to the lengthy process, challenges in detecting it in low concentrations, and
treatment challenges. This chemical is more difficult to remove from water due to its properties.
She said next steps include publishing the 2025 Annual Water Quality Report by May 2026, and
launching the Emerging Contaminant page on the website later this month.
         Ms. Ingham gave a drought update. As of tonight, Holly Springs is not under water
restrictions. Most of the state is under Extreme Drought and staff is monitoring the situation.
Residents are encouraged to practice mindful water use to conserve resources. She gave an
update on the Sanford Water Filtration Facility, under construction. The site is well underway, and
construction is expected to be complete in 2029.
         In summary, Ms. Ingham said that Holly Springs is fully compliant with all drinking water
regulations and is closely monitoring drought conditions, although not under any drinking water
restrictions currently. Harnett Regional Water and TriRiver Water are both taking steps to reduce
PFAS in advance of regulatory timelines. The Sanford Water Filtration Facility project is on schedule
for completion in early 2029.
         Council member Deshazor said he thinks a lot of our residents don’t understand how
important water is and what is behind it. He would like to explore ways to educate the public about
water.
         Mayor Kondratick asked about 1-4. Dioxane and the treatments available. Ms. Ingham said
there is a treatment called advanced oxidative processes, which is usually a combination of
ultraviolet light, hydrogen peroxide and ozone, that can treat it, but it is not a standard treatment.
But the Sanford plant left space so it can be installed in the future.

May 12, 2026 Town Council Workshop
Page 3 of 5
                                                                                                   Page 23 of 229


        MPT Drees said the website has tips on maximizing water conservation. She asked if the
town practices those tips. Randy Harrington, Town Manager, said we have synthetic turf in a lot of
areas so watering is not required. We have very limited irrigation areas in town. But he thinks we are
practicing what we preach, but if you see something, say something. Ms. Ingham said that there are
some exceptions to the irrigation schedule in stage one, for some types of places. You may see
someone not following the residential schedule, but it may be because there are exceptions for
that use.

3.      2027 Mayor and Council Retreat
        Linda McKinney, Town Clerk, said she was seeking feedback from Council on the preferred
dates and locations for the 2027 Mayor and Council Retreat. She said the two dates that are being
considered are Feb. 4th through 6th, or February 11th through 13th. Either way it would be from after
lunch on the Thursday to noon on the Saturday. Quotes have been received from four possible
venues: The Rizzo in Chapel Hill, The Graylyn and the Kimpton-Cardinal in Winston-Salem, and the
Grandover in Greensboro. Ms. McKinney outlined the differences in the venues. The Rizzo is
significantly less expensive than the others, although they are all in the mid-$20k mark. Both the
Rizzo and the Graylyn are familiar with our retreats and have a less busy feel which could have
fewer distractions than the larger, more urban venues. She said the Rizzo is available the first
weekend and, if Council preferred the second choice, would make an effort to free that up for us.
Graylyn and Grandover are available either weekend, and Kimpton-Cardinal is only available Feb 4th
through 6th.
        Council said they would prefer the Rizzo Center and the February 4 -6 dates.

4.     Other Business: Council member Larson thanked Mr. Harrington for his work on the budget.
She said City Vision was last week and had good sessions on Affordable Housing, Disaster
Response and Communications. She congratulated the Police Department for National Police
Week. She said the Vertical Horizon concert was good. At Sugg Farm Wild about nature is coming
up.
Council member Deshazor said there is a men’s mental health walk at Apex next Saturday. Second,
there’s a lot of conversation about Google Fiber. Some people said we should stop them. But the
State does not allow us to, and you should reach out to Google directly. They were very responsive
last year.

MPT Drees said she was going to put Town Attorney, John Schifano, on the spot about water usage
in Holly Springs. Mr. Schifano said we have, by ordinance, a Stage Zero which is odd-even
depending on your address. There are a few requirements in the Ordinance. We are always
supposed to conserve water. MPT Drees thanked everyone who tuned in for the budget and invited
them to speak at the Public Hearing next week.

Mayor Kondratick said he was also at the Vertical Horizon concert, and it was very well done. Also,
last night’s Police Department awards event was outstanding, and he was honored to be there to
honor the Police Department. Coming up this week: Tomorrow he will be at UNC Rex Hospital’s
celebration of Hospital Week. On Thursday at Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee he will
present a Monarch Butterfly proclamation. If you can come, please do. On Friday downtown there
will be an art walk. Finaly, he commended the members of Council who have been out and about in
the community. He knows it is a big commitment of time.

Council member Hewetson said Summer at the Springs is next Friday. A different venue and
atmosphere, but fun for the whole family. On the budget video she thanked Mr. Harrington for

May 12, 2026 Town Council Workshop
Page 4 of 5
                                                                                                  Page 24 of 229


everything he does to put it together. It makes everything that is happening in Holly Springs very
exciting. She thanked him for his work on that.

5.    Closed Session: none.

5. Adjournment:
        Motion to adjourn was made by Council member Deshazor seconded by Council member
Hewetson and passed with a unanimous vote. The May 12, 2026 workshop meeting of the Holly
Springs Town Council was adjourned at 7:16 pm.

Respectfully submitted on Tuesday, June 16, 2026.



________________________________
Linda McKinney
Town Clerk




May 12, 2026 Town Council Workshop
Page 5 of 5
                                                                                                     Page 25 of 229


Mayor and Council Workshop
6 p.m. May 21, 2026
Law Enforcement Center, and livestream


                                             MINUTES

The Holly Springs Town Council met in a workshop session on Tuesday, May 21, 2026 at the Law
Enforcement Center and via livestreaming. Mayor Kondratick presided, calling the meeting to order
at 6:00 p.m. A quorum was established as the Mayor and five Council members were present in the
room as the meeting opened.

Council Members Present in the room: Mayor Mike Kondratick, Mayor Pro Tem Annie Drees,
Council members Chris Deshazor, Danielle Hewetson, Kara Foster, and Sarah Larson.

Council Members Absent: none.

Staff Members Present in the room: Randy Harrington, Town Manager; Linda McKinney, Town Clerk
(recording the minutes); Daniel Weeks, Assistant Town Manager; Scott Chase, Assistant Town
Manager; John Schifano, Town Attorney; Kameron Womack, IT; Corey Petersohn, Director, Office of
Budget, Innovation, and Strategy; MaryBeth Spoehr, Budget, Innovation, and Strategy; Cassie Hack,
Director, Communications and Marketing; Tamara Ward and Kelly Miller, Communications and
Marketing; Chris Hills, Director Development Services; Kendra Parrish, Executive Director of
Utilities and Infrastructure; Rachel Ingham, Michael Leonas, and Tim Athy, Utilities &
Infrastructure; LeeAnn Plumer, Director, Parks & Recreation; George Brown, Director, Office of
Customer Care; Paige Scott, Director, Public Works; Paul Liquorie, Police Chief; LeRoy Smith, Fire
Chief; Tina Stroupe, Finance Director; Sabrina McDonald, Director of Human Resources; Irena
Krstanovic, Director of Economic Development; Jeff Wilson, Director IT.

Mayor Kondratick called the meeting to order at 6:20 p.m.

1.      Recommended Budget Presentation: Randy Harrington, Town Manager, outlined what has
already happened toward adopting a budget, including the presentation and Public Hearing, as
well as answering their questions. He said that as Council discusses the recommended budget
that any additions, deletions, or amendments to the recommended budget require support from at
least three Council members. Additionally, state law requires a balanced budget, so any additions
require an offsetting expenditure reduction, or identification of new funding. He said that there
were a few areas he wanted to touch on and then it would be turned over to Council for discussion.
These areas include expanded hours for the Hopper, the Utility Bill Round Up Program concept,
timing considerations for a future transportation bond, and others.
        Corey Petersohn, Director, Office of Budget, Innovation, and Strategy, said that FY27
recommended municipal water and wastewater rates in the County average $93.92 per month for a
typical user of 4,000 gallons per month. He said that Fuquay-Varina’s are higher than Holly Springs.
Holly Springs’ are higher than Raleigh, Apex, and Cary because of the rapid growth and the need to
expand the service. He explained that this is related to the age and size of the water systems, as
active investments are happening here. Further, the source of the water going to Raleigh, Apex, and
Cary comes from closer to the cities, so the distance the water has to travel is less. MPT Drees
asked if we were legally allowed to subsidize the utility fund and if others do. Mr. Harrington said
the rating agencies frown on that as not being a sustainable way to run the business unit. MPT

May 21, 2026 Town Council Workshop
Page 1 of 5
                                                                                                Page 26 of 229


Drees asked what the impact would be. Mr. Harrington said it would mean lower bond ratings,
which make future investing less affordable.
         Mr. Petersohn said that Holly Springs’ proposed property tax rate is the lowest in the County
and unchanged from last year. He showed how that worked out across different property values.
         Council member Deshazor asked to go back to the water. He said an email was received
about charging more to businesses than residences for water. He asked if it was a general practice
to charge a different rate to businesses. Mr. Harrington said it is a common practice to charge a
bulk rate, and that is generally lower. As you saw in the budget presentation, there are funds to do a
rate study, which is a good thing to do on a regular basis. We would like to bring that back to you at
the annual retreat to see what those results were. Council member Deshazor asked if Council
would have an opportunity to change those rate increasaes that were decided in 2022. Mr.
Harrington said it is the rate structure, rather than the rates. It would be a redistribution. Mr.
Petersohn said that model is already adjusted every year based on the data. MPT Drees asked how
long this rate increase plan was. Tina Stroupe, Finance Director, said we look out 10 years, but we
can only feel comfortable predicting at 5 years because there are too many unknowns.
         Mr. Petersohn said there is a language clarification change to the Personnel Policy to show
that all full and part-time employees are elibilbe to use the gym and exercicse facilities at the Hunt
Center. It is not a poicy change, but a clarification.
         Chris Hills, Director of Development Services, gave statistics on ridership on the Hopper,
and the availability to increase service without committing additional Town funds. He said that
nearby municipalities that offer Saturday service have higest ridership from 11 am to 7 pm, and
lower ridership on the earlier and later hours. A survey of current Hopper riders indicates that the
preferred time on Saturday would be between 11 am and 5 pm, with a secondary preference of 9
am to 3 pm.
         Mr. Hills outlined the costs associated with adding Saturday service and/or expanding
weekday service. Adding 13 hours on Saturday would cost $32,899. Adding one additional hour
(until 9 pm) on weekdays and seven hours on Saturday would cost $30,369. Either of these options
would be covered by the additional grant funding available from CAMPO of $38,089. Staff
recommends adding 13 hours on Saturdays, which would maximize the available grant money.
         Council member Larson said she loves the Saturday option and thinks it would get us more
new riders. Having the later end time on Saturday would also expand the ridership. Mayor
Kondratick agrees, but asked, if we want to make changes as we implement this, what the process
would be. Mr. Hills said as long as ridership is going up we do not want to make changes. But if we
find hours that are not utilized, we could move those around to cover hours that are utilized.
Council member Deshazor asked what happens with the banked hours with this option. Mr. Hills
said we would be able to continue to utilize them. As the program expands in the future knowing
where hours are not utilized, shifting to the utilized hours is a better option becaues reliability is
important. Council member Deshazor said he likes Option 1. He thinks people will use this. He
asked Economic Development to work with businesses to stay open to 10 pm so we can get folks
there. MPT Drees said she likes Option 1. But asked if there was a risk to growing too quickly. Mr.
Hills said from a perspective of funding, there is no risk. But we have seen that wait times are going
to go up, so that is the tradeoff. That is where the number of vehicles is to be looked at in the future.
Council member Deshazor asked if we could expand 10pm on Friday to use the rest of the grant.
Mr. Hills said that staff worked really hard to find the right balance. He thinks it would be difficult to
make that change at t his point. Council member Foster said she likes Option 1. But since not a lot
of businesses are open until 10, how challenging would it be to make Fri and Sat until 9. Would that
be less confusing. Mr. Hills said he understands but what we have is a 13 hour window. Over time
as the data set moves, we can make changes. He suggested waiting to see what the data shows.
MPT Drees said from her own polling, people who don’t ride the Hopper now want later hours. If we

May 21, 2026 Town Council Workshop
Page 2 of 5
                                                                                                      Page 27 of 229


try on Saturday and examine that data, we can come back and see if people really do use that.
Council member Hewetson said that makes sense. She said she still likes Option 2, but it makes
sense that the reasons it would be used on the evenings tend to be restaurants and smaller
businesses. She likes the extra hour on weekdays, but a 13 hour Saturday would be good to see.
She said she could see needing more vehicles as wait times go up. That might be the next thing
rather than other hours. Council member Deshazor said we are in month 5 and we are alreayd
making a large change. He likes the idea of taking this step, monitoring it, and seeing what we do
next. Mr. Harrington said he thinks what he is hearing is consensus for the Saturday option.
Council confirmed that was their desire.

         Tina Stroupe, Finance Director, said that the Round Up for Holly Springs Utility Assistance
Program would be to create a framework wherein residents can voluntarily support other residents
experiencing temporary financial hardships with paying the water bills. She explained how the
program would work and how a non-profit partner, such as NeighborUp would be needed to
objectively administer the program. Staff is asking for guidance if Council desires to implement
such a program.
         Ms. Stroupe said that historically 1% of the towns’s 16,900 utility accounts are delinquent
and only 0.5% get disconnected. She explained that disconnection only occurs if bills are 45 days
past due and it is necessary to ensure the business remains solvent. She outlined the steps taken
by the Town to notify people when their bill is delinquent.
         MPT Drees asked about the fees charged if someone’s water is disconected. Ms. Stroupe
said there is a $10 late fee, and a $35 delinquent fee. You have time to pay your bill before you are
cut off, but that fee is still assessed because we need to cover the administrative costs.
         Ms. Stroupe offered examples of how residents could support this program, how the funds
would be used, and how it would be administered. NeighborUp would require a 5% to 10%
administration fee to do this. Eligibility requirements would need to be set and staff recommends
going with NeighborUp’s existing eligibilty process and recommends limiting assistance to one
time in a 12-month period, limiting it to $200 per occrrence, and to assess all late fees. Council
member Deshazor requested clarification of the percentage that would be paid to Neighbor Up.
Ms. Stroupe said it is calculated on how much they grant as assistance, not the amount we have in
the account. Council member Hewetson said this is a wonderful program, but she is sensitive to
the optics of the 10% off the top and making sure the funds go only to Holly Springs residents. Ms.
Stroupe explained that the Town would take in the donations, and hold that money. Our residents
go to Neighbor Up and say they need help. We would send funds to NeighborUp who would send
them back to us, OR NeighborUp would notify us whose account to apply the funds to and we apply
it. Council member Foster asked if the program would be opt in or opt out. Ms. Stroupe said it is
opt in. It is totally voluntarily. Council member Hewetson asked what the requirements were for
application. Ms. Stroupe said NeighborUp is suggesting the same framework as other
municipalities. They look at income and it is based on the poverty level. There are guidelines. We
can work with NeighborUp if we want to set stricter guidelines.
         Council member Larson asked if there were instances where NeighborUp can help pay just
fees, not the bill, for cases like when a card is denied. Ms. Stroupe said we would have to talk to
NeighborUp about that, but we can set our own guidelines for the way we want to make the
program work. Mayor Kondratick asked how the staff recommendations track with other
municipalities that use NeighborUp. Ms. Stroupe said we only heard back from one and they go up
to $600, but they also have an electric utility. Holly Springs does not have electric so that is why
they set a higher maximum. Council member Hewetson said we have a very generous community.
What happens if our funds exceed the need? Ms. Stroupe said we would take direction from
Council. But we could raise the maximum or allow applications more often than once every 12

May 21, 2026 Town Council Workshop
Page 3 of 5
                                                                                                 Page 28 of 229


months. Mr. Harrington said that’s a good quesstion but in reality I’m not sure we will ever see that
situation. Ms. Stroupe said the other municipality we talked to gets about $400 a month in
donations. Council member Hewetson asked if a customer would have to elect every month or
could they set it up to be motnhly. Samantha Sleeter, Deputy Finance Director, said residents
could set it up to donate every month.
          Ms. Stroupe said that if Council desires to move forward, staff would need to continue
diescussions with NeighborUp to define the prupose, create eligibility guidelies, and determie
administration fees or other costs to the Town. Staff would also need to coordinate with the current
billing software team to make adjustments, communicate the program to residents, and collect
funds for approximately 6-8 months prior to the official program start.
          Council discussed seeing what level of donations come in over the first 6 months and
discussing at that point whether the cap needs to increase or decrease, engaging with corporate
partners, and how many customers could be helped. Council member Foster asked how much
extra staff time would be required. Ms. Stroupe said satff time would be more in the beginning to
get it up and running but then it would require applying donations to the account and reconciling
the account. Mr. Harrington said he was hearing adgreement to move forward and staff will work
within this frame work.
          Randy Harrington, Town Manager, said we are a AAA rated organization, which gives us the
lowest interest rates. Our financial advisors give us debt modeling that gives a us strong debt
management. He gave an overview of general government debt capacity, and the debt model the
Town uses for planning. He said that the debt affordablity model projects an additional capacity of
around $100 million. He explained the potential debt issuance timeline for maximum benefit,
assuming no change to the existing property tax rate. These issuances could be used for future fire
stations, transportation projects, and the Operations Campus, Phase 2. He outlined ways the
timing of a bond affects projects, and said that staff needs at least a 7-month runway prior to a
bond vote to get through the Local Government Commission process. He pointed out the risks and
benefits of setting the bond vote in 2027 or 2028. He said the Town is in a position at this point to do
this without raising taxes.
          Mayor Kondratick asked when staff would need an answer. Mr. Harrington said by the June
Workshop, ideally. If we wait until September, there being no workshops in July and August, he is
nervous about the level of staff analysis that would be needed, which makes a tight timeframe in
the fall.
          Council discussed the risks and benefits of moving forward in 2027 or 2028 given things
going on at the state level, and the ballots in an odd year as opposed to an even year. They
discussed having a flag ship project that would show progress to the public, and the difference in
data between the earlier and later dates. Consensus was to have staff work on it this summer
towards a 2027 bond, but if the numbers change at the retreat, Council can shift to 2028.

        Five minute recess.

2.    Council Discussion:
      Mayor Kondratick outlined the procedure for the discussion of any changes desired.
      Council discussed their priorities and goals for this budget. Mayor Kondratick said the
takeaway is unanimity around transportation, traffic, and affordability. But he also heard interest in
careful budget stewardship while maintaining appropriate staffing and service levels. Three
Council members said they wanted to confirm that sidewalk connections are included as part of
transportation and are a high priority.
      There was discussion about the ramifications of the actions going on in the General
Assembly that could potentially limit the town’s ability to set property tax rates in the future.

May 21, 2026 Town Council Workshop
Page 4 of 5
                                                                                                    Page 29 of 229


       Council discussed things that they would consider adding more funding for and how much
investment it would take to move the needle. These included small business assistance, traffic
signals, Intelligent Transportation Systems, renewing the Comprehensive Transportation Plan, and
increasing the nonprofit grant line item. There was discussion about the role of and need for a
Chief of Staff position, and seeding the Round Up Holly Springs program. Specific discussion was
around reaching out to NeighborUp to see if there was any flexibility on the percentage, such as
becoming a Strategic Partner with the Town.
       Council consensus was to add $5,000 from the unallocated $10,000 to the nonprofit grant
program and hold the other $5,000 as unallocated. Council further directed staff to investigate the
possibility of expanding the small business grants to areas outside of Downtown, and to reach out
to NeighborUp to see if there is flexibility on how they get paid to administer the Round Up program.

3.    Closed Session: none.

4.     Adjournment:
       Motion to adjourn was made by Council member Deshazor seconded by MPT Drees and
passed with a unanimous vote. The May 21, 2026 workshop meeting of the Holly Springs Town
Council was adjourned at 9:30 pm.

Respectfully submitted on Tuesday, June 16, 2026.



________________________________
Linda McKinney
Town Clerk




May 21, 2026 Town Council Workshop
Page 5 of 5
                                                                                                 Page 30 of 229


                                        Holly Springs Town Council
                                             Town Council Meeting Agenda Cover Sheet


                                                                         Agenda Item#: 10.
Consent Agenda
Title: End of Year Budget Amendments and Grants and Annual Resolution Designating Official
Depositories
Strategic Priority Area: Organizational Excellence
Staff Resource: Corey Petersohn, Budget, Innovation, and Strategy, Tina Stroupe, Finance


Action(s):

    • Approve the end of year budget amendments for Fiscal Year 2025-2026 and adopt
      associated capital project ordinances included in the packet.
    • Adopt Resolution 26-22 Designating Official Depositories and Securities Broker/Dealers in
      compliance with N.C.G.S. §§ 159-30, 159-31, and 159-25.
    • Accept a North Carolina Great Trails State Grant for $300,000.

Explanation:

    • The budget ordinance for the Town authorizes the Town Manager to approve inter-
      department budget amendments within the same fund, up to $50,000 with notification to
      Council within the following month.
    • Amendments that alter the total appropriation and/or transfer greater than $50,000
      between departments require approval from Town Council.
    • Annually, at the close of a fiscal year, the Budget Department and Finance Department
      coordinate to conduct end-of-year budget amendments.
    • End-of-year budget amendments are necessary to perform:
           o Technical adjustments for year-end financial reporting / audit purposes;
           o Update estimates for year-end revenues/expenditures;
           o True up debt service funds to match authorized debt issuances and payments in
             alignment with the debt model; and
           o Transfers to/from project funds and reserve funds to support authorized and
             approved project activities.
    • All end-of-year adjustments are net neutral and do not increase the overall budget unless
      otherwise stated below with an identified revenue source.
    • End-of-year adjustments are often made to maintain appropriate budget authority for all
      anticipated remaining expenses while maintaining operating contingency for any
      unforeseen circumstances within the final few weeks of the fiscal year.
    • In some instances, final collection of revenues and expenditures associated with the close
      out of fiscal year 2025-2026 may not be received until after the end of the fiscal year.
    • The following amendments are included in the packet:
           o Amendment 1 - Cost Allocation Update: The Town annually conducts a cost
             allocation study that it utilizes to distribute costs incurred in the General Fund to
             the Utility and Stormwater Funds. The Utility Fund and Stormwater Fund are
                                                                     Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                      June 16, 2026

                                                                                         Page 31 of 229


  enterprise funds and therefore, all appropriate expenses associated with operating
  those funds are covered by their respective fund's revenue sources. Examples of
  typical expenses covered by the cost allocation are centralized type services such
  as human resources, finance, and other typical business type expenses. This
  amendment does not increase the total operating budget.
o Amendments 2, 3, & 4 - Updates to Personnel Expenses (General Fund, Utility
  Fund, and Stormwater Fund): These amendments are routine end of year actions
  to adjust budgeted amounts for salaries and benefits to align with projected end of
  year actual expenses. Salaries and benefits are budgeted annually based on
  projections to include merit adjustments, health insurance elections, new position
  salaries, as well as part-time and over-time related expenses. It is standard
  practice to require adjustments between departments within the same fund for
  audit and future financial reporting purposes. These amendments do not increase
  the total operating budget.
o Amendments 5 & 6 - Updates to Debt Service Fund Expenses (General Fund and
  Utility Fund): These amendments are to align the end-of-year budget with
  projections for debt service payments (both General Fund and Utility Fund) as well
  as debt service fund related fees. These fees and payments are based on Town
  Council approved debt issuances and in alignment with the Town's debt model.
  These amendments (net of transfers) do not increase the total operating budget.
o Amendment 7 - Operational Contingency: This amendment utilizes already
  collected revenues to ensure the Town has sufficient funding for bulk water
  purchases from Harnett County through the end of the fiscal year and funding for
  operational contingency for unforeseen end of year expenses in all major operating
  funds. This amendment is funded by already collected revenues and any transfer
  from the contingency account to another department's operating budget would be
  reported to Town Council at the next business meeting.
o Amendment 8 - Parks and Recreation Capital Project Ordinance (26-20): this
  Ordinance appropriates a NC Great Trails State Program grant for the Camp Branch
  greenway project. The Town was notified of this award earlier in the fiscal year and
  the Town funded match portion was included in the FY27 Budget Adoption. The
  $300,000 grant will go towards pre-construction / design services for the Camp
  Branch Greenway.
o Amendment 9 - Town Building Capital Project Ordinance (26-21): this Ordinance
  appropriates a transfer from the Town Building Fund to the Water Projects Fund as
  part of a technical correction for cost-sharing of the Operations Campus
  construction between General Fund supported, and Utility fund supported elements
  of the project. Additionally, this ordinance appropriates interest earnings for the
  purpose of covering debt issuance expenses. These adjustments do not change the
  construction cost of the project.
o Amendment 10 - Water Capital Project Ordinance (26-22): this Ordinance is the
  same as Amendment #9 but appropriates the Water Projects Fund receiving the
  transfer from the Town Building fund as well as the Utility supported investment
  earnings covering the utility-supported debt issuance expenses. These adjustments
  do not change the construction cost of the project.
o Amendment 11 - Subscription-Based Information Technology Arrangements
  (SBITAs) - this amendment is required to record SBITAs (software agreements) in
  accordance with governmental account standards (GASB statement No. 96). This
  amendment is a technical adjustment to establish the necessary budget authority
  to recognize the Town's right-to-use subscription assets and related liabilities from

                                                          Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                           June 16, 2026

                                                                              Page 32 of 229


             the agreements. All expenses have a corresponding and offsetting revenue
             adjustment to meet the financial reporting requirements. This amendment does
             not have a material impact on the budget.
          o Amendment 12 - Arbitrage - this amendment appropriates an arbitrage rebate
             liability associated with the Town's 2021 General Obligation Bonds as required
             under federal tax regulations. This liability occurs when bond proceeds generate
             excess interest earnings, and a rebate is required per IRS requirements for
             maintaining tax-exempt bond issuances.
    • North Carolina General Statutes §§159-30 and 159-31 require that local governments
      formally designate official depositories for public funds. NC General Statute §159-25
      establishes finance officer responsibilities, including disbursement and signatory
      requirements.
    • The Town periodically, but at least annually, updates its list of designated depositories
      and broker/dealers to reflect current relationships and ensure compliance with state law.

Background:

    • End of year budget amendments are annual, technical clean-up processes in preparation
      of closing out the current fiscal year.
    • All end of year adjustments maintain a balanced budget.
    • Capital Project Ordinances appropriate all funds for all projects included within the fund.
      Included in the packet is a summary document detailing any changes to the capital funds.
    • Resolution 26-22 is in compliance with all statutory requirements and updates the list of
      financial institutions and securities broker/dealers authorized to hold or invest the Town's
      funds and also affirms signatory controls, including dual-signature and electronic
      disbursement protocols required by §159-25. This is in alignment with the Town's
      financial policies, supports strong internal controls, and ensures continued protection and
      legal compliance in the handling of public funds.
    • Deposits with all designated institutions will be secured as required under §159-30(b).

Funding Source(s):

    • Amendments 1 - 7: Operating Budget - Genreal and Utility Revenue Sources
    • Amendments 8 - 10: Community Investment Plan - Grants and Interest Earnings.
    • Amendments 11 - 12: Operating Budget - Appropriated Fund Balances

Attachment(s):
1.   Amendment 1 - Cost Allocation Update
2.   Amendment 2 - General Fund Personnel Expenses
3.   Amendment 3 - Utility Fund Personnel Expenses
4.   Amendment 4 - Stormwater Fund Personnel Expenses
5.   Amendment 5 - General Debt Service Fund Expenses
6.   Amendment 6 - Utility Debt Service Fund Expenses
7.   Amendment 7 - Operational Contingency
8.   Summary of Ordinance Changes for June 16 2026
9.   Amendment 8 - Parks and Recreation Project Ordinance (26-20)
10. Amendment 9 - Town Building Project Ordinance (26-21)
11. Amendment 10 - Water Projects Capital Ordinance (26-22)
12. Amendment 11 - SBITA
13. Amendment 12 - Arbitrage
                                                                     Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                      June 16, 2026

                                                                                         Page 33 of 229


14. Resolution 26-22 Designating Official Depository

Town Council Business Meeting
June 16, 2026

Page 34 of 229


                                  Town of Holly Springs
                          FY2025-26 Budget Amendment Request

BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Holly Springs, North Carolina, that the following
amendment be made to the annual budget ordinance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

Department:          Cost Allocation FY26                                              Date:          6/16/2026

Reason for Budget Amendment:
This amendment is to update the cost allocation of General Fund Services provided for the Utility and
Stormwater Funds. These adjustments maintain a balanced budget and do not increase the overall operating
budget appropriation.


Expense
     Account #                         Account Description                    Increase             Decrease
10-410-82.99         General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $         3,529
10-411-01.10         General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $         9,421
10-411-82.99         General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $        11,866
10-412-11-01.10      General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment              $       9,684
10-412-11-82.99      General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $         8,036
10-412-12-01.10      General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $        23,471
10-412-12-82.99      General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment              $      12,277
10-412-13-01.10      General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $        26,043
10-412-13-82.99      General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment              $       8,946
10-412-14-01.10      General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $         3,631
10-412-14-82.99      General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $        21,129
10-412-15-01.10      General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $         8,616
10-412-15-82.99      General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $           900
10-413-01.10         General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment              $      41,872
10-413-82.99         General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment              $       3,842
10-414-01.10         General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment              $      26,714
10-414-82.99         General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $        17,320
10-422-21-01.10      General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $        28,852
10-422-21-82.99      General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment              $      85,285
10-422-30-01.10      General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $         1,655
10-422-30-82.99      General Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $         2,142
30-410-01.10         Utility Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment              $       8,795
30-410-82.99         Utility Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment                                 $        45,876
31-410-01.10         Stormwater Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment           $      14,624
31-410-82.99         Stormwater Fund - Cost Allocation Adjustment           $         448
                                                             Total Expense: $     212,487      $       212,487

Revenue
     Account #                        Account Description                      Increase            Decrease
10-352               General Fund - Interest Earnings                        $      22,009




                                                                                                         Page 35 of 229


31-352                    Utility Fund - Interest Earnings                                               $          37,081
31-352                    Stormwater Fund - Interest Earnings                       $             15,072
                                                                     Total Revenue: $             37,081 $          37,081




Department Head Signature (or electronic submission)                        Town Manager Signature (if necessary)


Town Manager has authorized Department Directors to transfer operating funds within their department.
Town Manager is authorized to approve transfers between departments within the same fund up to $50,000.
All inter-departmental transfers will be reported to Town Council by the following month.
Amendments that change the total budget or departmental transfers over $50,000 require Town Council approval.




                                                                                                                    Page 36 of 229


                                  Town of Holly Springs
                          FY2025-26 Budget Amendment Request

BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Holly Springs, North Carolina, that the following
amendment be made to the annual budget ordinance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

Department:           Budget                                                            Date:         6/16/2026

Reason for Budget Amendment:
This amendment is to balance salaries and benefits related expenses across the General Fund utilizing existing
lapse salaries and benefits. This amendment does not increase the total budget appropriation.




Expense
     Account #                       Account Description                          Increase          Decrease
10-411-01.01          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $         5,000
10-412-10-01.01       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $        10,000
10-412-10-02.07       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $         4,000
10-412-11-02.01       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $         7,000
10-412-11-05.01       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $         4,000
10-412-12-01.01       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $         5,000
10-412-12-01.02       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $        10,000
10-412-13-01.01       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $        25,000
10-412-13-02.07       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $         6,000
10-412-14-01.01       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $         5,000
10-412-14-02.04       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $         1,000
10-412-14-02.07       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $         2,000
10-412-15-01.01       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                          $       45,000
10-412-15-02.01       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                          $        3,000
10-412-15-02.04       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                          $        3,000
10-412-15-02.06       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                          $        2,000
10-412-15-02.07       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                          $        5,000
10-413-01.01          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                          $       25,000
10-414-01.01          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                          $       30,000
10-414-02.01          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                          $       14,000
10-416-01.01          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                          $        7,000
10-416-02.01          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                          $        1,000
10-418-18-01.02       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $       30,000
10-418-18-01.03       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $      120,000
10-418-18-01.06       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $       50,000
10-418-19-01.02       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                          $       12,000
10-418-19-02.01       Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                          $       10,000
10-420-01.01          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $      190,000
10-420-01.03          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $       86,000
10-420-02.07          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses        $       70,000




                                                                                                         Page 37 of 229


10-422-21-01.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    7,000
10-422-21-02.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    12,000
10-422-22-01.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $   130,000
10-422-22-01.02    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    20,000
10-422-22-02.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    30,000
10-422-22-02.04    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $     8,000
10-422-22-02.07    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    10,000
10-422-23-01.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    30,000
10-422-23-02.07    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $     3,000
10-422-24-02.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    10,000
10-425-25-01.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $   30,000
10-425-25-01.02    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $   62,000
10-425-25-01.03    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    5,000
10-425-25-01.04    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    1,000
10-425-25-02.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    3,000
10-425-25-02.04    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    5,000
10-425-25-02.06    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    4,000
10-425-25-02.07    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    7,000
10-425-26-01.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $   10,000
10-425-27-01.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $   15,000
10-425-27-01.03    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    3,000
10-425-27-02.06    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    5,000
10-425-27-02.07    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $   11,000
10-425-28-01.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    15,000
10-425-28-02.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    10,000
10-425-29-01.02    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $   20,000
10-425-29-01.03    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    3,000
10-425-29-02.07    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    3,000
10-425-31-01.02    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    10,000
10-425-31-02.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    4,000
10-425-39-01.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    6,000
10-425-39-02.01    Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    10,000
10-450-005-01.01   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    6,000
10-450-005-02.01   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    2,000
10-450-005-02.07   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $    2,000
10-450-010-01.01   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    30,000
10-450-010-02.01   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    15,000
10-450-010-02.04   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $     2,000
10-450-010-02.07   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $     3,000
10-450-011-01.01   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    40,000
10-450-011-02.01   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    14,000
10-450-011-02.07   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $     5,000
10-460-015-01.01   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    60,000
10-460-015-02.01   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $    10,000
10-460-015-02.04   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $     5,000
10-460-015-02.07   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                $     5,000
10-460-020-01.01   Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses   $   28,000



                                                                                        Page 38 of 229


10-460-020-02.07          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses    $                     9,000
10-460-025-01.01          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                               $             150,000
10-460-025-02.01          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                               $              30,000
10-460-025-02.04          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                               $               9,000
10-460-025-02.07          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                               $              20,000
10-460-025-02.13          Gen Fund - Operating Budget - Personnel Expenses                               $              28,000
                                                               Total Expense: $                  881,000 $             881,000

Revenue
    Account #                                 Account Description                           Increase                Decrease




                                                                     Total Revenue: $                  -     $             -




Department Head Signature (or electronic submission)                        Town Manager Signature (if necessary)


Town Manager has authorized Department Directors to transfer operating funds within their department.
Town Manager is authorized to approve transfers between departments within the same fund up to $50,000.
All inter-departmental transfers will be reported to Town Council by the following month.
Amendments that change the total budget or departmental transfers over $50,000 require Town Council approval.




                                                                                                                         Page 39 of 229


                                   Town of Holly Springs
                           FY2025-26 Budget Amendment Request

BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Holly Springs, North Carolina, that the following
amendment be made to the annual budget ordinance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

Department:           Budget                                                              Date:         6/16/2026

Reason for Budget Amendment:
This amendment is to balance salaries and benefits related expenses across the Utility Fund utilizing existing
lapse salaries and benefits. This amendment does not increase the total budget appropriation.




Expense
     Account #                         Account Description                    Increase                Decrease
30-412-10-01.01       Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $      11,000
30-412-10-02.07       Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $       5,000
30-412-11-01.01       Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $       3,000
30-413-32-01.01       Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense                          $       17,000
30-413-32-02.01       Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense                          $        5,000
30-413-42-01.01       Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense                          $       20,000
30-414-01.01          Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense                          $       20,000
30-450-005-01.01      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense                          $       26,000
30-450-030-01.01      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $      42,000
30-450-030-02.01      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $       1,000
30-450-030-02.04      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $       3,000
30-450-030-02.05      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $       1,000
30-450-030-02.06      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $       2,000
30-450-030-02.07      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $       7,000
30-450-035-01.01      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense                          $       24,000
30-450-050-01.01      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense                          $        1,000
30-450-055-01.01      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $      20,000
30-450-055-01.03      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $      12,000
30-450-055-02.04      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $       1,000
30-450-055-02.06      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $       1,000
30-450-055-02.07      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $       6,000
30-450-060-01.04      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $       2,000
30-450-060-02.01      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $       1,000
30-450-060-02.07      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense    $       1,000
30-460-020-01.01      Utility Fund- Operating Budget - Personnel Expense                          $        6,000
                                                             Total Expense: $     119,000         $      119,000

Revenue
    Account #                          Account Description                        Increase            Decrease




                                                                                                           Page 40 of 229


                                                                     Total Revenue: $                 -      $        -




Department Head Signature (or electronic submission)                        Town Manager Signature (if necessary)


Town Manager has authorized Department Directors to transfer operating funds within their department.
Town Manager is authorized to approve transfers between departments within the same fund up to $50,000.
All inter-departmental transfers will be reported to Town Council by the following month.
Amendments that change the total budget or departmental transfers over $50,000 require Town Council approval.




                                                                                                                    Page 41 of 229


                                       Town of Holly Springs
                               FY2025-26 Budget Amendment Request

BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Holly Springs, North Carolina, that the following
amendment be made to the annual budget ordinance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

Department:               Budget                                                                     Date:            6/16/2026

Reason for Budget Amendment:
This amendment is to balance salaries and benefits related expenses across the Stormwater Fund utilizing
existing lapse salaries and benefits. This amendment does not increase the total budget appropriation.




Expense
     Account #                           Account Description                    Increase                            Decrease
31-450-065-01.01          Stormwater Fund - Operating - Personnel Expenses    $       3,000
31-450-065-02.07          Stormwater Fund - Operating - Personnel Expenses    $       3,000
31-450-070-01.01          Stormwater Fund - Operating - Personnel Expenses    $      11,000
31-450-070-01.03          Stormwater Fund - Operating - Personnel Expenses    $       7,000
31-450-070-02.07          Stormwater Fund - Operating - Personnel Expenses    $       4,000
31-412-10-01.01           Stormwater Fund - Operating - Personnel Expenses    $       1,000
31-412-02.01              Stormwater Fund - Operating - Personnel Expenses    $       1,000
31-460-01.01              Stormwater Fund - Operating - Personnel Expenses                                   $          15,000
31-460-02.01              Stormwater Fund - Operating - Personnel Expenses                                   $           5,000
31-460-02.07              Stormwater Fund - Operating - Personnel Expenses                                   $          10,000
                                                               Total Expense: $      30,000                  $          30,000

Revenue
    Account #                                 Account Description                           Increase                Decrease




                                                                     Total Revenue: $                  -     $             -




Department Head Signature (or electronic submission)                        Town Manager Signature (if necessary)


Town Manager has authorized Department Directors to transfer operating funds within their department.
Town Manager is authorized to approve transfers between departments within the same fund up to $50,000.
All inter-departmental transfers will be reported to Town Council by the following month.




                                                                                                                         Page 42 of 229


Amendments that change the total budget or departmental transfers over $50,000 require Town Council approval.

Page 43 of 229


                                       Town of Holly Springs
                               FY2025-26 Budget Amendment Request

BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Holly Springs, North Carolina, that the following
amendment be made to the annual budget ordinance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

Department:               Budget                                                                     Date:            6/16/2026

Reason for Budget Amendment:
This amendment is to balance expenses within the General Fund Debt Service Fund by adjusting budget to
match updated accounts utilized by the Finance Department for debt service payments and fees for property
tax collection. This amendment does not increase the total fund appropriation.


Expense
     Account #                           Account Description                    Increase                            Decrease
60-81.02                  General Fund Debt Service Fund Expenses             $      15,000
60-81.62                  General Fund Debt Service Fund Expenses             $       1,500
60-413-82.09              General Fund Debt Service Fund Expenses                                            $          21,828
60-413-12.01              General Fund Debt Service Fund Expenses                                            $         421,830
60-416-75.010             General Fund Debt Service Fund Expenses             $     421,830
60-418-8525.001           General Fund Debt Service Fund Expenses             $         100
60-420-8520.003           General Fund Debt Service Fund Expenses             $      71,615
60-420-8525.003           General Fund Debt Service Fund Expenses                                            $          67,062
60-422-8520.003           General Fund Debt Service Fund Expenses             $      70,000
60-422-8520.004           General Fund Debt Service Fund Expenses                                            $          69,825
60-422-8525.003           General Fund Debt Service Fund Expenses             $         300
60-432-8525.001           General Fund Debt Service Fund Expenses             $         100
60-460-8525.002           General Fund Debt Service Fund Expenses             $         100
                                                               Total Expense: $     580,545                  $         580,545

Revenue
    Account #                                 Account Description                           Increase                Decrease


                                                                     Total Revenue: $                  -     $             -




Department Head Signature (or electronic submission)                        Town Manager Signature (if necessary)


Town Manager has authorized Department Directors to transfer operating funds within their department.
Town Manager is authorized to approve transfers between departments within the same fund up to $50,000.
All inter-departmental transfers will be reported to Town Council by the following month.
Amendments that change the total budget or departmental transfers over $50,000 require Town Council approval.




                                                                                                                         Page 44 of 229


                                       Town of Holly Springs
                               FY2025-26 Budget Amendment Request

BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Holly Springs, North Carolina, that the following
amendment be made to the annual budget ordinance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

Department:               Budget                                                                      Date:           6/16/2026

Reason for Budget Amendment:
This amendment is for adjusting Utility Debt Service anticipated expenses for the close out of the fiscal year in
alignment with authorized debt issuances since budget adoption. This amendment transfers funds from the
Utility Fund to the Debt Service fund, net of that, the amendment does not increase the budget.


Expense
     Account #                              Account Description                     Increase      Decrease
61-430-8500.003           Utility Debt Service Fund Expenses                      $     100,000
61-430-8510.020           Utility Debt Service Fund Expenses                      $     134,900
61-430-8515.020           Utility Debt Service Fund Expenses                      $      19,000
61-430-8520.003           Utility Debt Service Fund Expenses                      $      70,000
61-430-8555.001           Utility Debt Service Fund Expenses                      $     449,200
30-95.61                  Utility Fund - Transfer to Debt Service                 $     773,100
30-95.71                  Utility Fund - Transfer to Capital Reserve                            $     773,100
                                                                   Total Expense: $ 1,546,200 $       773,100

Revenue
     Account #                              Account Description                                 Increase            Decrease
61-355.01                 Utility Debt Service Fund -Transfer In                            $       773,100

                                                                     Total Revenue: $              773,100 $               -




Department Head Signature (or electronic submission)                        Town Manager Signature (if necessary)


Town Manager has authorized Department Directors to transfer operating funds within their department.
Town Manager is authorized to approve transfers between departments within the same fund up to $50,000.
All inter-departmental transfers will be reported to Town Council by the following month.
Amendments that change the total budget or departmental transfers over $50,000 require Town Council approval.




                                                                                                                         Page 45 of 229


                                       Town of Holly Springs
                               FY2025-26 Budget Amendment Request

BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Holly Springs, North Carolina, that the following
amendment be made to the annual budget ordinance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

Department:               Budget                                                                      Date:           6/16/2026

Reason for Budget Amendment:
This amendment is to ensure all operating funds have an appropriate level of budget contingency and approved
funds for end of year projections to include bulk water purchase from Harnett County and operational
contingency in the General Fund and Stormwater Fund utilizing actual collected revenues.


Expense
     Account #                             Account Description                                  Increase            Decrease
30-450-045-25.01          Utility Fund - Water Purchases                                    $       400,000
31-410-02.12              Stormwater Fund - Operational Contingency                         $        50,000
10-410-82.98              General Fund - Operational Contingency                            $       100,000




                                                                      Total Expense: $             550,000 $               -

Revenue
     Account #                             Account Description                                  Increase            Decrease
30-305.02                 Utility Fund - Water Sales Commercial                             $       400,000
31-352                    Stormwater Fund - Interest Earnings                               $        50,000
10-352                    General Fund - Operational Contingency                            $       100,000




                                                                     Total Revenue: $              550,000 $               -




Department Head Signature (or electronic submission)                        Town Manager Signature (if necessary)


Town Manager has authorized Department Directors to transfer operating funds within their department.
Town Manager is authorized to approve transfers between departments within the same fund up to $50,000.
All inter-departmental transfers will be reported to Town Council by the following month.
Amendments that change the total budget or departmental transfers over $50,000 require Town Council approval.




                                                                                                                         Page 46 of 229


Summary of Ordinance Changes for June 16, 2026, Town Council
Note – Project ordinances appropriate financial sources for all projects within the project fund. These
funds are managed through a long-term project ordinance, rather than an annual budget, ensuring
funds are available for the entire life of the project.


Parks and Recreation Capital Project Ordinance
 Current Ordinance Appropriation                                                            $142,907,257
                NC Great Trails Grant for Camp Branch Greenway                                  $300,000
 Parks and Recreation Capital Project Ordinance (26-20)                                     $143,207,257




Town Buildings Capital Project Ordinance
 Current Ordinance Appropriation                                                             $46,294,628
                    Operations Campus (Transfer to Water Fund)                                  $478,742
                     Operations Campus Debt Issuance Expenses                                   $219,782
 Town Buildings Capital Project Ordinance (26-21)                                            $46,993,152




Water Capital Project Ordinance
 Current Ordinance Appropriation                                                            $259,200,277
          Operations Campus (Transfer From Town Building Fund)                                  $478,742
              Operations Campus (Offsetting Revenue Reduction)                                ($478,742)
                      Operations Campus Debt Issuance Expenses                                  $219,781
                 Sanford TriRivers Project Debt Issuance Expenses                               $836,348
 Water Capital Project Ordinance (26-22)                                                    $260,256,406




                                                                                                          Page 47 of 229


Ordinance No. 26-20
Date Submitted: June 16, 2026
Date Adopted: June 16, 2026

                       Parks and Recreation Capital Project Ordinance
                            HOLLY SPRINGS, NORTH CAROLINA

BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of Holly Springs, North Carolina, that, pursuant to Section
13.2 of Chapter 159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project
ordinance is hereby adopted:

SECTION I: The project authorized by this ordinance consists of parks and recreation capital
projects.

SECTION II: The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project
within the terms of the budget contained herein.

SECTION III: Parks and Recreation Fees shall be deposited directly in the fund and the following
amounts are appropriated for the project funds effective June 16, 2026:

    Parks and Recreation Capital Project Fund
    Expenditures:
    Parks and Recreation Capital Project Fund                                         143,207,257
                                                Total                                 143,207,257


SECTION IV: The following revenues are anticipated to be available to complete these projects:

    Park and Recreation Capital Project Fund
    Revenues:
    Bond Proceeds                                                                     114,287,668
    Transfer In                                                                        19,182,049
    Other Grants                                                                        4,089,000
    State Grants                                                                        4,034,340
    Federal Grants                                                                      1,133,000
    Miscellaneous Revenues                                                                481,200
                                                Total                                 143,207,257

SECTION V: The Finance Officer hereby directed to maintain within the project funds detailed
accounting records.

SECTION VI: The Budget Officer is directed to include a detailed analysis of the past and future
costs and revenues on this capital project in every budget submission made to the Town
Council.




                                                                                            Page 48 of 229


SECTION VII: The Town Manager is authorized to amend expenditures within the fund for
expenditures that are authorized per section I of this ordinance that do not change the total
appropriation within the fund.

SECTION VIII: Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the
Town Council, and to the Budget Officer and the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this
project.

SECTION IX: All ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed or amended to
reflect the controlling nature of this Ordinance.

The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective June 16, 2026, in accordance with the
laws of the State of North Carolina.

Adopted this, the 16th day of June 2026.




Town of Holly Springs by                             ATTEST:

_______________________________                      _____________________________
Michael D. Kondratick, Mayor                         Linda McKinney, Town Clerk




                                                                                           Page 49 of 229


Ordinance No. 26-21
Date Submitted: June 16, 2026
Date Adopted: June 16, 2026

                           Town Building Capital Project Ordinance
                            HOLLY SPRINGS, NORTH CAROLINA

BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of Holly Springs, North Carolina, that, pursuant to Section
13.2 of Chapter 159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project
ordinance is hereby adopted:

SECTION I: The project authorized by this ordinance consists of construction of town buildings
and general government capitalized assets.

SECTION II: The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project
within the terms of the budget contained herein.

SECTION III: Town Building Project Fees and Revenues shall be deposited in the fund effective
June 16, 2026:

    Town Building Project Fund
    Expenditures:
    Town Buildings Projects                                                             46,993,152
                                             Total                                      46,993,152


SECTION IV: The following revenues are anticipated to be available to complete these projects:

    Town Building Project Fund
    Revenues:
    Limited Obligation Bond                                                             39,790,215
    State Grants                                                                         2,900,000
    Transfers In                                                                         2,084,131
    Other Revenue Sources                                                                2,218,806
                                             Total                                      46,993,152

SECTION V: The Finance Officer hereby directed to maintain within the project funds detailed
accounting records.

SECTION VI: The Budget Officer is directed to include a detailed analysis of the past and future
costs and revenues on this capital project in every budget submission made to the Town
Council.

SECTION VII: The Town Manager is authorized to amend expenditures within the fund for
expenditures that are authorized per section I of this ordinance that do not change the total
appropriation within the fund.




                                                                                            Page 50 of 229


      SECTION VIII: Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the
      Town Council, and to the Budget Officer and the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this
      project.

      SECTION IX: All ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed or amended to
      reflect the controlling nature of this Ordinance.

      The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective June 16, 2026, in accordance with the
      laws of the State of North Carolina.

       Adopted this, the 16th day of June 2026.




Town of Holly Springs by                           ATTEST:

_______________________________                    _____________________________
Michael D. Kondratick, Mayor                       Linda McKinney, Town Clerk




                                                                                                 Page 51 of 229


Ordinance No. 26-22
Date Submitted: June 16, 2026
Date Adopted: June 16, 2026

                               Water Capital Project Ordinance
                             HOLLY SPRINGS, NORTH CAROLINA

BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of Holly Springs, North Carolina, that, pursuant to Section
13.2 of Chapter 159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the following capital project
ordinance is hereby adopted:

SECTION I: The project authorized by this ordinance consists of Water system projects.

SECTION II: The officers of this unit are hereby directed to proceed with the capital project
within the terms of the budget contained herein.

SECTION III: The following amounts are appropriated for the project funds effective June 16,
2026

    Water Project Fund
    Expenditures:
    Water Projects                                                                    260,256,406
                                             Total                                    260,256,406


SECTION IV: The following revenues are anticipated to be available to complete these projects:

    Water Project Fund
    Revenues:
    Revenue Bonds                                                                     153,320,203
    State Grants & Reimbursements                                                      36,627,457
    Transfers In                                                                       29,955,195
    Limited Obligation Bond Proceeds                                                   22,681,690
    Private Contributions                                                               8,870,347
    Federal Grants                                                                      6,592,000
    Other Utility Sources                                                               2,209,514
                                             Total                                    260,256,406

SECTION V: The Finance Officer hereby directed to maintain within the project funds detailed
accounting records.

SECTION VI: The Budget Officer is directed to include a detailed analysis of the past and future
costs and revenues on this capital project in every budget submission made to the Town
Council.




                                                                                            Page 52 of 229


      SECTION VII: The Town Manager or designee is authorized to amend expenditures within the
      fund for expenditures that are authorized per section I of this ordinance that do not change the
      total appropriation within the fund.


      SECTION VIII: Copies of this capital project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the
      Town Council, and to the Budget Officer and the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this
      project.

      SECTION IX: All ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed or amended to
      reflect the controlling nature of this Ordinance.

      The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective June 16, 2026, in accordance with the
      laws of the State of North Carolina.

       Adopted this, the 16th day of June 2026.




Town of Holly Springs by                           ATTEST:

_______________________________                    _____________________________
Michael D. Kondratick, Mayor                       Linda McKinney, Town Clerk




                                                                                                 Page 53 of 229


                                       Town of Holly Springs
                               FY2025-26 Budget Amendment Request

BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Holly Springs, North Carolina, that the following
amendment be made to the annual budget ordinance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

Department:               Budget                                                                      Date:           6/16/2026

Reason for Budget Amendment:
This amendment is required to record software Subscription-Based Information Technology Arrangements
(SBITAs) in accordance with governmental accounting standards. Since these agreements do not conform to
fiscal years, this is a financial transaction required for recognizing the liability.


Expense
     Account #                              Account Description                                 Increase            Decrease
10-418-18-90.08           General Fund - Police - SBITA                                     $        25,451
10-414-90.08              General Fund - IT - SBITA                                         $       155,461
30-413-42-90.08           Utility Fund - Finance SBITA                                      $       148,013




                                                                      Total Expense: $             328,925 $               -

Revenue
     Account #                              Account Description                                 Increase            Decrease
10-355.18                 General Fund - Other Sources - SBITA                              $       180,912
30-355.18                 Utility Fund - Other Sources - SBITA                              $       148,013




                                                                     Total Revenue: $              328,925 $               -




Department Head Signature (or electronic submission)                        Town Manager Signature (if necessary)


Town Manager has authorized Department Directors to transfer operating funds within their department.
Town Manager is authorized to approve transfers between departments within the same fund up to $50,000.
All inter-departmental transfers will be reported to Town Council by the following month.
Amendments that change the total budget or departmental transfers over $50,000 require Town Council approval.




                                                                                                                         Page 54 of 229


                                       Town of Holly Springs
                               FY2025-26 Budget Amendment Request

BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Holly Springs, North Carolina, that the following
amendment be made to the annual budget ordinance for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2026.

Department:               Budget                                                                      Date:          6/16/2026

Reason for Budget Amendment:
This amendment is appropriating an arbitrage rebate liability associated with the Town's 2021 General
Obligation Bonds as required under federal tax regulations. This occurs when bond proceeds generate excess
interest earnings and is an IRS requirement for tax-exempt bond issuances.


Expense
     Account #                            Account Description                                   Increase         Decrease
60-432-8600.004           General Debt Service - Arbitrage GO Bonds                         $       860,000




                                                                      Total Expense: $             860,000 $              -

Revenue
     Account #                            Account Description                                   Increase         Decrease
60-355.11                 General Debt Service - Appropriated Fund Balance                  $       860,000




                                                                      Total Revenue: $             860,000 $              -




Department Head Signature (or electronic submission)                         Town Manager Signature (if necessary)


Town Manager has authorized Department Directors to transfer operating funds within their department.
Town Manager is authorized to approve transfers between departments within the same fund up to $50,000.
All inter-departmental transfers will be reported to Town Council by the following month.
Amendments that change the total budget or departmental transfers over $50,000 require Town Council approval.




                                                                                                                        Page 55 of 229


       Resolution No. 26-22
       Date Adopted: June 16, 2026
       Effective Date: June 16, 2026

     RESOLUTION OF THE HOLLY SPRINGS TOWN COUNCIL DESIGNATING OFFICIAL
  DEPOSITORIES AND SECURITIES BROKER/DEALERS AND AFFIRMING COMPLIANCE WITH
                        NCGS §§159-30, 159-31 AND 159-25

        WHEREAS, North Carolina General Statutes (NCGS) §159-30 requires that local governments
establish a depository or depositories for public funds; and

        WHEREAS, NCGS §159-31 further requires that the governing body of a local government
formally designate the official depositories for its funds; and

        WHEREAS, NCGS §159-30(a) also authorizes local governments to invest funds in accordance
with a formal policy and to designate securities broker/dealers for the management of such investment
deposits; and

       WHEREAS, NCGS §159-25 sets forth the duties of the finance officer, including the
requirement that all checks and drafts be signed by the finance officer or a deputy finance officer and
countersigned by another official designated by the governing board, and further provides guidance for
the authorization and oversight of disbursements; and

        WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Holly Springs desires to ensure compliance with
these statutes, and ensure that all public funds of the Town of Holly Springs be deposited in a secure
and efficient manner, by formally designating both official depositories and security broker/dealers for
the Town's funds; and

       WHEREAS, the Town’s Finance Director has reviewed the qualifications of potential
depositories and securities broker/dealers to ensure their ability to comply with all applicable legal
requirements and provide adequate security for the Town's funds;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Town Council of the Town of Holly Springs,
North Carolina, as follows:

Section 1. Designation of Official Depositories and Securities Broker/Dealers
The following financial institutions and securities broker/dealers are hereby designated as official
depositories for the Town of Holly Springs in accordance with the Town’s cash management and
investment policies and NCGS §§159-30 and 159-31 until further notice, without order of priority:

   1. First National Bank of Pennsylvania
   2. Truist Bank
   3. JPMorgan Chase Bank
   4. PNC Bank




                                                                                                       Page 56 of 229


   5. First Bank
   6. United Community Bank
   7. U.S. Bank
   8. Regions Bank
   9. Pinnacle Bank
   10. North Carolina Capital Management Trust
   11. North Carolina Cooperative Liquid Assets Securities System (CLASS)
   12. Multi-Bank Securities, Inc.
   13. North Carolina Ancillary Governmental Participant Investment Program (AGPIP)/BNY
   14. Wells Fargo Bank, National Association

Section 2. Authorization to Deposit, Withdraw, and Invest Funds
The Town Manager, Finance Director, or their designee are hereby authorized to deposit funds into,
withdraw funds from, and invest funds with the official depositories and securities broker/dealers listed
above, as necessary for the transaction of Town business, in accordance with applicable financial
policies, and to comply with the requirements of NCGS §§159-30 and 159-31.

Section 2a. Signatory Requirements
In accordance with NCGS §159-25(b), all checks or drafts on the official depositories of the Town shall
be signed by the Finance Officer or a properly designated deputy finance officer and countersigned by
the Town Manager or Assistant Town Manager. No check or draft shall be issued or honored unless it
bears the signature of both authorized individuals, as required by law.

The Finance Officer or a duly authorized deputy finance officer is also authorized to initiate electronic
disbursements, including but not limited to Automated Clearing House (ACH) transfers and wire
transfers, from the official depositories of the Town. Such disbursements shall be executed under the
direction of the Finance Officer, with appropriate oversight and documentation to ensure compliance
with §159-25(b) and the safeguarding of public funds, and a record of such transactions in the Town’s
accounting system.

Section 3. Security of Deposits
All deposits in the official depositories shall be secured in compliance with the provisions of NCGS
§159-30(b) to ensure the safety of public funds. The Town Manager or Finance Director is hereby
authorized to take any action necessary to ensure proper collateralization and security for all deposits,
as required by law.

Section 4. Effective Date
This resolution shall take effect immediately upon adoption and shall remain in effect until superseded
by a subsequent resolution or action of the Town Council.

Adopted by the Holly Springs Town Council on this, the __ day of ___, 2026.


Town of Holly Springs by                             ATTEST:


_______________________________                      _____________________________
Michael D. Kondratick, Mayor                         Linda C. McKinney, Town Clerk




                                                                                                    Page 57 of 229


                                        Holly Springs Town Council
                                             Town Council Meeting Agenda Cover Sheet


                                                                         Agenda Item#: 11.
Consent Agenda
Title: Voluntary Annexation A25-10 Veridea S Village East
Strategic Priority Area: Growth Management & Economic Vitality
Staff Resource: Sarah Sularz, Development Services


Action(s):
Adopt Resolution 26-21 directing the Town Clerk to investigate the sufficiency of annexation
petition A25-10, and setting the public hearing to July 21, 2026.
Explanation:

    • The Town has received a petition for voluntary annexation of 1.53 +/- acres, a small
      driveway access portion of a large parcel and the adjacent street right-of-way.
    • The property is located on the east side of Old Holly Springs Apex Rd. across from
      Carolina Springs Blvd. and is owned by Wake County.
    • The property is in the Town's Extraterritorial Jurisdiction (ETJ) and is contiguous with the
      Town Limits.
    • This annexation is associated with an industrial project located in the Town of Apex as
      part of the Veridea project. The roadway being constructed to serve this project crosses
      the Town's ETJ to create a 4-way signalized intersection at Carolina Springs Blvd and
      Veridea Parkway.
    • The annexation will ensure that the Town has the alibility to provide emergency response
      services in the corridor.

Background:

    • Pursuant to NCGS 160A-31(c) Council is required, upon receiving a petition for
      annexation, "to cause the clerk of the municipality to investigate the sufficiency thereof
      and to certify the result of the investigation and to fix a date for public hearing on the
      question of annexation."
    • Service Comment Letters were sent out to town departments. No service related issues
      were identified.

Funding Source(s):
N/A
Attachment(s):
1.   A25-10 Map
2.   A25-10 Resolution of Sufficiency



                                                                      Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                       June 16, 2026

                                                                                          Page 58 of 229


ro ANNEXATION REPORT

A25-10 : Veridea South Village
Driveway Connection

Annexation Information

Annexation Number
A25-10
Total Acres
].53 +/- | Deed Acres
Property Address
3705 Old Holly Springs Apex Rd.

Contiguous to Town Limits
@ Yes O No

Holly Springs

Carolina
Springs

Property Location Map

/
/
/
/
/
/
/

Subdivision

Apex/Cary
Annexation Agreement

Apex/Holly Springs
Annexation Agreement

Cary/Holly Springs
Annexation Agreement

FV/Holly Springs
Annexation Agreement

Shearon

Town of Holly Springs Development Services | GIS Division Page 59 of 229


       Resolution No. 26-21
       Date Adopted: June 16, 2026
       Annexation No.: A25-10

    RESOLUTION OF THE HOLLY SPRINGS TOWN COUNCIL DIRECTING THE TOWN CLERK
     TO INVESTIGATE A PETITION RECEIVED UNDER G.S. 160A-58 AND FIXING THE DATE
               OF A PUBLIC HEARING ON THE QUESTION OF ANNEXATION


       WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of an area described in said petition was received
by the Town of Holly Springs; and

       WHEREAS, G.S. 160A-58.2 provides that the sufficiency of the petition shall be investigated by
the Town Clerk before further annexation proceedings may take place; and

        WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Holly Springs deems it advisable to proceed in
response to this request for annexation, subject to the Clerk’s satisfactory investigation of the
sufficiency of the petition; and

       WHEREAS, the area proposed for annexation is described as follows:

Lying and being in Holly Springs Township, Wake County, North Carolina, and more particularly
described as follows:

 BEGINNING AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE COMMON CORNER OF RXR LEN APEX
 OWNER LLC PIN: 0740241030 AND WAKE COUNTY PIN: 0740026492 WITH THE EASTERN
 RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF OLD HOLLY SPRINGS APEX ROAD RECORDED AMONG THE LAND
 RECORDS OF WAKE COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA IN BOOK OF MAPS 2022 PAGE 2,
 THENCE NORTH 89°45'44" EAST A DISTANCE OF 59.47 FEET TO A POINT; THENCE SOUTH
 04°58’ 10" WEST A DISTANCE OF 362.56 FEET TO A POINT; THENCE NORTH 88° 36‘ 32"
 WEST A DISTANCE OF 107.88 FEET TO A POINT; THENCE NORTH 12°33'12" EAST A
 DISTANCE OF 367.11 FEET TO A POINT WHICH IS THE POINT OF BEGINNING, HAVING AN
 AREA OF 0.69 ACRES - 30,163 SQUARE FEET.


       NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Town Council of the Town of Holly Springs,
North Carolina, that:

        Section 1. The Town Clerk is hereby directed to investigate the sufficiency of the above
described petition and to certify as soon as possible to the Holly Springs Town Council the result of her
investigation.

       Section 2. Subject to the Town Clerk’s satisfactory result of her investigation, a public hearing
on the question of annexation of the area described herein will be held at the Town Hall Council
Chambers, located at 128 S. Main Street, at 7 p.m. (or as soon thereafter as is practicable) on




                                                                                                  Page 60 of 229


Tuesday, July 21, 2026

        Section 3. Notice of the public hearing shall be published in the Raleigh News & Observer,
newspapers having general circulation in the Town of Holly Springs, at least ten (10) days prior to the
date of the public hearing.

Adopted this, the 16th day of June 2026.

                                                    ATTEST:


_______________________________                     _____________________________
Michael D. Kondratick, Mayor                        Linda C. McKinney, Town Clerk




                                                                                                  Page 61 of 229


                                         Holly Springs Town Council
                                              Town Council Meeting Agenda Cover Sheet


                                                                          Agenda Item#: 12.
Consent Agenda
Title: Engineering Design and Construction Standards Supplement #15
Strategic Priority Area: Growth Management & Economic Vitality
Organizational Excellence
Vibrant Community
Community Safety
Staff Resource: Kylie Davis, Utilities and Infrastructure, Sara Emig, Utilities and Infrastructure,
Kendra Parrish, Utilities and Infrastructure


Action(s):
Approve Supplement #15 to the Engineering Design and Construction Standards.
Explanation:

    • The Town's Engineering Design and Construction Standards (EDCS) are updated
      periodically to maintain consistency, improve clarity, and align Town practices with
      current State guidelines. Supplement #15 includes revisions across multiple utility and
      infrastructure sections, with updates focused on modernization, improved coordination,
      and clearer expectations for designers and developers.
    • The requested updates improve consistency across all development standards, align with
      State guidelines, support clear expectations for designers and contractors, and enhance
      the quality and coordination of public infrastructure construction.


Key Update Areas:

    • Pump Stations & Wastewater Systems:
          o Added standards for pump station demolition and abandonment.
          o Added requirement for fiber-optic connectivity for all pump stations.
          o Updated equipment and SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition)
            references to reflect current Town practices.
    • Water System Standards:
          o Added comprehensive standards for waterline, water service, hydrant, and
            appurtenance abandonment.
          o Updated references for meter installation and clarified requirements for dead-end
            mains.
          o Added standards for hydrant installations at greater depths.
    • Sanitary Sewer Systems:
          o Added repair, modification, and abandonment standards for existing sewer
            infrastructure.
          o Updated requirements for work on active sewer mains and clarified bypass
            pumping and demolition expectations.
                                                                      Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                       June 16, 2026

                                                                                          Page 62 of 229


        o Modernized standards for manholes and abandonment procedures.
   • Town Standard Details:
        o Refined gateway and streetscape details to maintain consistency with the town's
          branding.
        o Updated pump station layouts and erosion control details for improved clarity and
          state alignment.

Background:

   • The Engineering Design and Construction Standards (EDCS) establish the minimum
     specifications required by the Town for public infrastructure, including but not limited to
     utilities, roadways, and greenways.
   • Both private development and the town's capital projects must adhere to these standards
     to ensure high-quality infrastructure that can be efficiently maintained as part of the
     town's public system.
   • Consistent enforcement of the EDCS leads to infrastructure that is sustainable, durable,
     cost-effective and aligned with long-term asset maintenance goals.
   • Design and construction best practices and materials are constantly evolving and
     improving in quality, availability, and efficiency; Town staff from multiple departments
     regularly review and contribute updates to the standards to reflect current construction
     materials and best practices.

Funding Source(s):
N/A
Attachment(s):
1.   6.00 Updated June 2026_#15
2.   7.00 Updated June 2026 #15
3.   13.00 Updated June 2026_#15 (1)
4.   HS373_Sec_Gateway_Sign_Post_Foundation
5.   HS374_Welcome_Sign
6.   HS622_1of2
7.   HS622_2of2
8.   HS1003 Townhome Lot EC
9.   HS823_2026 (1)
10. EDCS Supp 15 Summary of Changes




                                                                    Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                     June 16, 2026

                                                                                        Page 63 of 229


                                 SECTION 6.00
                              WATER DISTRIBUTION

                                  SUB-INDEX


6.01   WATER DISTRIBUTION PIPE

       A.    General
       B.    Design
       C.    Material
       D.    Installation

6.02   FIRE HYDRANTS

       A.    Location
       B.    Specifications
       C.    Installation
       D.    Relocation
       E.    Fire Flow Requirements for Buildings

6.03   VALVES AND APPURTENANCES

       A.    Location
       B.    Specifications
       C.    Installation

6.04   WATER SERVICE TAPS

       A.    Materials
       B.    Individual Water Services

6.05   CLEARANCE BETWEEN WATER MAINS, SANITARY AND STORM
       SEWERS

6.06   BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS CONNECTION

       A.    General

6.07   AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS

       A.    General
       B.    Design
       C.    Post Indicator Valve
       D.    Backflow Prevention
       E.    Fire Department Connection


2015 ED&CS                               6-1        Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                         Page 64 of 229


       F.    Dedicated Riser Room
       G.    Access
       H.    Identification
       I.    Installation
       J.    Fire Alarm Panel Location

6.08   FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS

       A.    Fire Access and Fire Lanes
       B.    Gates
       C.    Two Points of Access
       D.    Fire Lanes
       E.    Fire Safety During Construction

6.09   TESTING AND INSPECTION

       A.    Hydrostatic Testing
       B.    Chlorination
       C.    Bacteriological Sampling

6.10   FIRE PROTECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION

6.11   IRRIGATION SYSTEMS

6.12   REPAIR AND ABANDONMENT

       A.    Water Service Line Repair
       B.    Abandonment of Existing Water Main
       C.    Abandonment of Existing Water Services
       D.    Fire Hydrant Assembly Abandonment
       E.    Blowoff Assembly Abandonment
       F.    Combination Air Valve Abandonment




2015 ED&CS                              6-2           Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                           Page 65 of 229


                                     SECTION 6.00

                              WATER DISTRIBUTION


6.01   WATER DISTRIBUTION PIPE

A.     General

       Water system expansions shall meet all requirements of these standards. In
       addition, the North Carolina Administrative Code Title 15A Chapter 18 Subchapter
       C – Water Supplies (15A NCAC 18C) is hereby incorporated into the Town’s
       standards for water system expansions. This specification section identifies
       minimum equipment and construction requirements for water system expansions
       that are to be owned and operated by the Town of Holly Springs. This section does
       not address every aspect of water system expansion; it is the design engineer’s
       (Designer’s) responsibility to supplement these requirements as necessary to
       produce a complete set of plans and specifications.

       All utility extension permits must be obtained prior to construction. Refer to the
       Town Code of Ordinances Section 16 for further requirements.

B.     Design

       Location: Water lines shall be extended along the entire roadway frontage length
       of any proposed project. All public water mains shall be located within dedicated
       right of way or dedicated easements with a minimum width of 20 feet. Landscape
       plantings, fences, or structures shall not be allowed within water line easements.

       Sizing: Water lines shall be sized in accordance with the Town’s “Comprehensive
       Plan” or as directed by the Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure
       Services. In residential areas, mains shall be 6-inch and 8-inch diameters. Six-inch
       mains shall be used only when a good grid exists. The total maximum length of 6-
       inch and 8-inch line, without connection to a larger main, is 1200 feet and 2000
       feet, respectively. Four-inch water mains are permitted on residential cul-de-sacs
       less than 400 feet long, if no hydrant is required. Where a sufficient grid network
       does not exist, lines shall be upsized additionally to provide adequate fire flow as
       directed by the Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services. If there
       is adjacent developable property, an adequate size line to properly serve future
       development shall be provided sufficient for any future project to meet Town
       standards.

C.     Material

       All water mains shall be ductile iron. The use of Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) pipe
       must be approved by the Executive Director of Utilities & Infrastructure Services,


2015 ED&CS                                  6-3                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                 Page 66 of 229


      and, if approved, must be blue in color and conform to the specifications of AWWA
      C900. The Engineering Department will maintain a list of approved manufacturers
      of other water distribution products. New manufacturers must submit requests for
      approval to the Engineering Department. Additional information such as catalogs,
      list of installations in the area, or material samples may be required. A written
      response will be mailed to the applicant accepting or rejecting the product within
      90 days of the receipt of all necessary information.

      Ductile Iron Pipe shall be designed and manufactured in accordance with AWWA
      C150 and C151 for a laying condition Type 2 and a working pressure as follows:

                                    3-12 inches       350 psi
                                   14-20 inches       250 psi
                                     24 inches        200 psi
                                   30-54 inches       150 psi

      Pipe Joints shall be of the push-on type as per AWWA C111. Pipe lining shall be
      cement mortar with a seal coat of bituminous material in accordance with AWWA
      C104. Galvanized steel pipe will not be allowed as a material for water mains or
      water services lines.

      Steel Encasement for water/sewer pipes are required for the following Street
      Classifications to avoid traffic disruption in the future:
         • Controlled Access Highway

      For carrier pipes that employ cathodic protection anticorrosion systems, the carrier
      and casing pipes shall be effectively insulated from one another. Carrier and casing
      shall be cathodically protected as a unit.

      See Section 5.03 Boring and Jacking for more casing pipe size requirements.

D.    Installation

      Ductile iron pipe shall be manufactured and installed in accordance with
      requirements set forth in the most recent revision of AWWA C600/C605 and the
      Rules Governing Public Water Systems. Materials shall be handled in such a
      manner to protect them from damage at all times.

      All water mains shall be installed with a minimum cover of 4 feet and maximum of
      6 feet measured from the top of the pipe to the finished surface grade (or as
      otherwise directed by Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services).
      Where waterlines cross NCDOT roadways or major Town roadways, as determined
      by the engineer, pipe encasement shall be required. When water lines are installed
      along a roadway which does not have curb and gutter or which are planned to be
      widened in the future, the water line shall be installed at 4.5 feet minimum depth
      below edge of existing pavement. In addition, all waterline installation shall be


2015 ED&CS                                6-4                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                               Page 67 of 229


      placed to prevent conflict with future road improvements or foreseeable vertical
      alignment changes. Where air release valves are located on water mains the lines
      should be a minimum of 6 feet below the existing edge of pavement in this area.

      The laying conditions for ductile iron pipe shall be certified by a Professional
      Engineer licensed in the State of North Carolina and installed in accordance with
      AWWA C600 and the Ductile Iron Pipe Research Association.




              Figure 1: Laying Conditions for Ductile Iron Pipe (AWWA C600)


      Locater devices as manufactured by 3M Corporation shall be placed directly on top
      of distribution water mains along major thoroughfares and cross-country
      installations (and as otherwise directed by the Executive Director of Utilities and
      Infrastructure Services) at 100 foot intervals and turns/bends. Locater tape shall
      also be required to be installed at 2 feet above the pipe.

      All construction relating to the utility improvements which will be maintained by
      the Town must be performed by a contractor licensed in North Carolina. Proof of
      licensure will be required at the Project Preconstruction Meeting. Operation of
      existing valves and fire hydrants shall be by Town staff only.


2015 ED&CS                                6-5                            Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                              Page 68 of 229


       . Town water mains that are 16-inches or greater are considered water transmission
       mains. Service connections to the Town’s water transmission mains are prohibited.
       A proposed water main connection to the Town’s water transmission mains requires
       an exception granted by the Executive Director of Utilities & Infrastructure. All
       requests are subject to completing a hydraulic study to confirm adequate pressure
       can be maintained in the system.

6.02   FIRE HYDRANTS (Public and Private)

A.     Location

       All fire hydrants shall be installed on a minimum 6-inch waterline with minimum
       of 20’ width easement including 5 feet beyond fire hydrant. Only 1 fire hydrant
       may be installed on a dead end 6-inch line. There shall be at least 1 fire hydrant at
       each street intersection located in accordance with the Standard Detail section of
       these Standards (TOHS Detail HS613). Each fire hydrant shall have a valve on the
       hydrant service leg, located within 2 feet of tee on the main line.

       No building lot shall be more than 350’ from fire hydrant.

       In residential areas, the maximum distance between fire hydrants, measured along
       street centerlines, shall be 500 feet. In residential areas, the minimum fire flow
       shall be 1000 gpm with a minimum system pressure of 25 psi for 1 hour.

       In business, office and institutional, and industrial districts, the maximum distance
       between hydrants, measured along street centerline, shall be 300 feet. When
       business, office and institutional, and industrial intersections are not more than 450
       feet apart, no hydrant is required between intersections. The minimum fire flow in
       these areas shall be 1500 gpm with a minimum system pressure of 25 psi for 2
       hours.

       The minimum number of fire hydrants available to a building shall not be less than
       that listed in Table A1. The number of fire hydrants available to a complex or
       subdivision shall not be less than that determined by spacing requirements listed in
       Table A1 when applied to fire apparatus access roads and perimeter public streets
       from which fire operations could be conducted.

       Existing fire hydrants on public streets are allowed to be considered as available.
       Existing fire hydrants on adjacent properties shall not be considered available
       unless fire apparatus access roads extend between properties and easements are
       established to prevent obstruction of such roads.

       The average spacing between fire hydrants shall not exceed that listed in Table A1.




2015 ED&CS                                  6-6                              Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                  Page 69 of 229


        Exception: The Office of the Fire Marshal is authorized to accept a deficiency of
        up to 10 percent where existing fire hydrants provide all or a portion of the required
        fire hydrant service.

        Regardless of the average spacing, fire hydrants shall be located such that all points
        on streets and access roads adjacent to a building are within the distances listed in
        Table A1.

                                 Table A1
                NUMBER AND DISTRIBUTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS


                                               AVERAGE
                                                                  MAXIMUM DISTANCE FROM
       FIRE-FLOW           MINIMUM              SPACING
                                                                   ANY POINT ON STREET OR
     REQUIREMENTS         NUMBER OF            BETWEEN
                                                                    ROAD FRONTAGE TO A
          (gpm)           HYDRANTS             HYDRANTS
                                                                         HYDRANT d
                                               (Feet) a, b, c
      1,750 or less            1                  300                           250
      2,000-2,250              2                  300                           225
         2,500                 3                  300                           225
         3,000                 3                  300                           225
      3,500-4,000              4                  300                           210
      4,500-5,000              5                  300                           180
         5,500                 6                  300                           180
         6,000                 6                  250                           150
      6,500-7,000              7                  250                           150
     7,500 or more        8 or more e             200                           120

a.
   Reduce by 100 feet for dead-end streets or roads.
b.
   Where streets are provided with median dividers that cannot be crossed by fire fighters pulling
hose lines, or where arterial streets are provided with four or more traffic lanes and have a traffic
count of more than 30,000 vehicles per day, hydrant spacing shall average 500 feet on each side
of the street and be arranged on an alternating basis.
c.
   Where new water mains are extended along streets where hydrants are not needed for
protection of structures or similar fire problems, fire hydrants shall be provided at spacing not to
exceed 1,000 feet to provide for transportation hazards.
d.
   Reduce by 50 feet for dead-end streets or roads.
e.
   One hydrant for each 1,000 gallons per minute or fraction thereof.




2015 ED&CS                                      6-7                                Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                        Page 70 of 229


      When new buildings are constructed, or existing buildings expanded, all points of
      exterior walls for buildings shall be within 150’ of a fire access lane. When a fire
      access lane is provided then all portions of exterior walls are required to be within
      300’ of a hydrant. The maximum length of fire access lanes without an approved
      turn-a-round is 150’. Hydrants shall be located at least 40 feet from the building or
      as specified by the Town of Holly Springs Fire Department, Office of the Fire
      Marshal. See Section 6.07E for fire hydrants required for automatic fire sprinkler
      systems.

      Where sprinkler systems or standpipe systems are used, the fire department
      connections (FDC) shall be located on the street side of the building and within 100
      feet of a fire hydrant and at fall zone line or as specified by the Office of the Fire
      Marshal, and shall be located so that nothing obstructs direct access. Where a
      sprinkler system or a riser room are required, outside access in accordance with the
      N.C. Building Code shall be provided. Backflow prevention for sprinkler systems
      shall be as specified in Section 6.06 of these Standards. Flow data for system design
      shall be field-verified by the designer. The Town will provide assistance with
      opening valves and hydrants for the collection of data for system design. FDC’s
      can be mounted on single story buildings only.

      A hydraulic report signed, sealed, and dated within 12 months by an Engineer may
      be required by the Town to document meeting the minimum fire flow and system
      pressure requirements. On all thoroughfares and collectors with access points only
      at street intersections, hydrants shall be located at each street intersection and
      staggered at 1000 foot intervals along the street. Where these intersections are less
      than 1200 feet apart, no hydrant is required between the intersections.

B.    Specifications

      Hydrants shall conform to AWWA C502 with a minimum valve opening of 4½
      inches. All fire hydrants shall be furnished with a 5 inch Storz/quick connect
      coupling on the steamer outlet with a chained cap. The Storz connection shall be
      by the hydrant manufacturer and only come as part of the hydrant assembly. No
      adapters for the Storz connection are allowed. Hydrants shall also be furnished
      with: double 2½-inch hose connections with caps and chains, National Standard
      Threads, mechanical joint, 1½-inch pentagon operating nut, open left, painted
      Sherwin Williams pro industrial urethane alkyd enamel safety yellow B54 Y157,
      bronze to bronze seating, a minimum 3½-foot bury depth with break away ground
      line flange and break away rod coupling. The hydrant bonnet will be designed with
      a sealed oil or grease reservoir with O-ring seals and a Teflon thrust bearing, as
      furnished by Mueller “Centurion” (A-421), Kennedy ‘Guardian’, American
      Darling (MK-73), Clow or Waterous. Fire hydrant caps shall be attached to the
      body of the hydrant with a minimum 2/0 twist link, heavy duty, non-kinking,
      machine chain. All fire hydrants shall be designed for a working pressure of 250
      psi or greater.



2015 ED&CS                                 6-8                              Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                 Page 71 of 229


      All hydrants and Fire Access Lanes shall be installed and operational before any
      combustible material is brought onto the site.

C.    Installation

      Hydrants shall be set plumb, properly located with the pumper nozzle facing the
      closest curb. The back of the hydrant opposite the pipe connection shall be firmly
      blocked against the vertical face of the trench with 1/3 cubic yard of concrete.
      Double bridle rods and collars shall not be less than 5/8 inch diameter stock and
      coated with bituminous paint. All fire hydrants shall be newly painted in
      accordance with NFPA standards. A minimum of 8 cubic feet of stone shall be
      placed around the hydrant. The backfill around the hydrants shall be thoroughly
      compacted. Hydrant installation shall be in accordance with the Standard Details
      section of these Standards. Fire hydrants shall be installed on a clear level space
      with a minimum of five (5) feet clearance provided and maintained on all sides of
      a fire hydrant for immediate access. There must be clearance with a minimum of
      18”-24” from center of 5” Storz cap to grade and shall be installed with positive
      drainage.

      1. Vertical Shoe Hydrant Installations

         For installations requiring depth of bury greater than 5-ft, the fire hydrant shall
         be equipped with a vertical shoe arrangement that provides for full extension of
         the lower valve plate against a stopping mechanism located inside the vertical
         shoe to maximize hydraulic flow conditions through the hydrant. The vertical
         shoe shall be equipped with flanged connections. The maximum depth of bury
         for vertical shoe installations shall not exceed 4-ft measured from the
         breakaway flange to the bottom of the vertical hydrant shoe. The vertical shoe
         and all piping included in the hydrant supply line shall be restrained with
         blocking and rodding or blocking with wedge action retainer glands or standard
         grip ring connections, Aquagrip, Romac, or approved equal.


D.    Relocation

      For installations where hydrants will be relocated, all hydrants with greater than 20
      years operational service, as indicated by the date of manufacture provided on the
      hydrant, shall be replaced with a new fire hydrant in accordance with Engineering
      Design and Construction Standards. The fire hydrant being replaced shall be
      returned to the Town of Holly Springs Public Works Department.

      For installations where the hydrant to be relocated has less than 20-years of
      operational service, the existing hydrant may be relocated. The existing hydrant
      shall be disinfected, flushed and pressure tested prior to being placed back into
      service.



2015 ED&CS                                 6-9                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                Page 72 of 229


E.    Fire Flow Requirements for Buildings

      2. One- and two-family dwellings

      The minimum fire-flow and flow duration requirements for one-and two-family
      dwellings having a fire-flow calculation area that does not exceed 3,600 square feet
      (344.5m2) shall be 1,000 gallons per minute at 25psi for 1 hour.

      Fire-flow and flow durations for dwellings having a fire-flow calculation area in
      excess of 3,601 square feet and greater shall not be less than specified in tables E1
      and E2 at 25psi.

      3. Buildings other than one- and two-family dwellings.

      The minimum fire-flow and flow duration for buildings other than one-and two-
      family dwellings shall be as specified in tables E1 and E3, but no less than 1,500
      gallons per minute at 25psi.

      4. Water supply for buildings equipped with an automatic sprinkler system.

      For building equipped with an approved automatic sprinkler system, the water
      supply shall be capable of providing the greater of:

      1. The automatic sprinkler system demand, including hose stream allowance.

      2. The required fire-flow.




2015 ED&CS                                6-10                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                Page 73 of 229


          Table E1
                MINIMUM REQUIRED FIRE-FLOW AND FLOW DURATION FOR
                                         BUILDINGS
                       (Appendix B of the 2018 NC Fire Prevention Code)


                       FIRE-FLOW CALCULATION AREA (square feet)
                                                                                                FIRE-FLOW         FLOW
                                                                                               (gallons per     DURATION
Type 1A and 1B2   Type IIA and IIIAa   Type IV and V-Aa   Type IIB and IIIBa     Type V-Ba       minute)1        (hours)
   0-22,700            0-12,700            0-8,200             0-5,900            0-3,600         1,500
 22,701-30,200     12,701-17,000        8,201-10,900        5,901-7,900         3,601-4,800       1,750
 30,201-38,700     17,001-21,800        10,901-12,900       7,901-9,800         4,801-6,200       2,000              2
 38,701-48,300     21,801-24,200        12,901-17,400       9,801-12,600        6,201-7,700       2,250
 48,301-59,000     24,201-33,200        17,401-21,300      12,601-15,400        7,701-9,400       2,500
 59,001-70,900     33,201-39,700        21,301-25,500      15,401-18,400       9,401-11,300       2,750
 70,901-83,700     39,701-47,100        25,501-30,100      18,401-21,800       11,301-13,400      3,000
 83,701-97,700     47,101-54,900        30,101-35,200      21,801-25,900       13,401-15,600      3,250
97,701-112,700     54,901-63,400        35,201-40,600      25,901-29,300       15,601-18,000      3,500              3
112,701-128,700    63,401-72,400        40,601-46,400      29,301-33,500       18,001-20,600      3,750
128,701-145,900    72,401-82,100        46,401-52,500      33,501-37,900       20,601-23,300      4,000
145,901-164,200    82,101-92,400        52,501-59,100      37,901-42,700       23,301-26,300      4,250
164,201-183.400   92,401-103,100        59,101-66,000      42,701-47,700       26,301-29,300      4,500
183,401-203,700   103,101-114,600       66,001-73,300      47,701-53,000       29,301-32,600      4,750
203,701-225,200   114,601-126,700       73,301-81,100      53,001-58,600       32,601-36,000      5,000
225,201-247,700   126,701-139,400       81,101-89,200      58,601-65,400       36,001-39,600      5,250
247,701-271,200   139,401-152,600       89,201-97,700      65,401-70,600       39,601-43,400      5,500
271,201-295,900   152,601-166,500      97,701-106,500      70,601-77,000       43,401-47,400      5,750
295,901-Greater   166,501-Greater      106,501-115,800     77,001-83,700       47,401-51,500      6,000              4
      —                   —            115,801-125,500     83,701-90,600       51,501-55,700      6,250
      —                   —            125,501-135,500     90,601-97,900       55,701-60,200      6,500
      —                   —            135,501-145,800    97,901-106,800       60,201-64,800      6,750
      —                   —            145,801-156,700    106,801-113,200      64,801-69,600      7,000
      —                   —            156,701-167,900    113,201-121,300      69,601-74,600      7,250
      —                   —            167,901-179,400    121,301-129,600      74,601-79,800      7,500
      —                   —            179,401-191,400    129,601-138,300 79,801-85,100           7,750
      —                   —            191,401-Greater              138,301-Greater                           85,101-Greater
          a. Types of construction are based on the NC Building Code
          b. Fire-Flow is measured at 25 psi residual pressure.




          2015 ED&CS                                       6-11                                 Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                                     Page 74 of 229


 TABLE E2

                     REQUIRED FIRE-FLOW FOR ONE-AND
 TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS
      FIRE-FLOW           AUTOMATIC          MINIUM FIRE-                  FLOW DURATION
  CALCULATION AREA     SPRINKLER SYSTEM          FLOW                          (hours)
     (square feet)      (Design Standard)     (gallons per
                                                minute)
        0-3,600       No automatic sprinkler     1,000                             1
                             system
   3,601 and greater  No automatic sprinkler Value in Table             Duration in Table E1 at
                             system                E1                   the required fire-flow
                                                                                 rate
          0-3,600           Section 903.3.1.3 of the         1,000      Duration in Table E1 at
                             NC Fire Code Section                       the required fire-flow
                               P2904 of the NC                                   rate
                               Residential Code
     3601 and greater       Section 903.3.1.3 of the   1/2 value in
                             NC Fire Code Section       Table E1                   1
                                  P2904 of the         but no less
                              NC Residential Code      than 1,000


 Table E3

         REQUIRED FIRE -FLOW FOR BUILDINGS OTHER THAN ONE-TWO FAMILY DWELLINGS
 Automatic Sprinkler System           MINIMUM FIRE-FLOW                  FLOW DURATION
     (Design Standard)                (gallons per minute)                   (hours)
   No automatic sprinkler
                                         Value in Table E1             Duration in Table E1
           system
   Section 903.3.1.1 of the        25% of the value in Table E1         Duration in Table E1
        NC Fire Code                 but no less than 1,500           at the reduced flow rate
     Section 903.3.1.2 of the      25% of the value in Table E1         Duration in Table E1
          NC Fire Code               but no less than 1,500           at the reduced flow rate




6.03     VALVES AND APPURTENANCES

A.       Location



2015 ED&CS                                     6-12                              Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                      Page 75 of 229


      Valves shall be installed on all branches from feeder mains and hydrants according
      to the following schedule: 4 valves at crosses; 3 valves at tees; and 1 valve on each
      hydrant branch. When a loop section of waterline is connected back into the feeder
      main within a distance of 200 feet or less, only 1 valve will be required in the feeder
      main.

      Where no waterline intersections are existing, a main line valve shall be installed
      at every 100 feet per 1-inch diameter main up to a distance of 2000 feet between
      valves.

      Where water mains dead-end, or are terminated for future extension, at least one
      full length section of ductile iron pipe shall be installed with a thrust collar, main
      line valve, and blow-off assembly. This dead-end shall terminate within a right-of-
      way or dedicated public utility easement, and shall extend to the property line.
      Connections to existing dead-end mains in adjacent streets may be required, as
      directed by the Executive Director of Utilities & Infrastructure, in order to enhance
      flow, water quality, and/or pressure in the affected area.

      Blowoff assemblies shall be a minimum of 2 inches and installed at the end of all
      dead-end waterlines. Where there is not sufficient pressure or fire hydrants located
      to thoroughly flush the system, a larger blowoff may be required. On large diameter
      mains or other circumstances, larger blowoffs may be required by the Executive
      Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services.

      Combination air valves shall be installed at high points of waterlines 12 inches in
      diameter or larger, as directed by the Executive Director of Utilities and
      Infrastructure Services. All new air release valves shall be installed in precast
      manholes. Existing lines in which an air release valve is installed can use a dog
      house manhole. Water lines shall be installed at a grade which will allow the air to
      migrate to a high point where the air can be released through an air valve. A
      minimum pipe slope of 1 foot in 500 feet should be maintained. The size of air
      valve shall be designed by a Professional Engineer registered in North Carolina.
      Combination air valves or other types of air release valves may be required at other
      locations as directed by the Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure
      Services.

      All new construction air release manholes shall be a precast manhole. Doghouse
      manholes can only be installed on existing water lines.

      Water lines crossing stream beds will be required to be installed with restrained
      joint pipe inside a steel encasement pipe.

B.    Specifications

      Gate Valves greater than 2 inches shall meet all requirements of AWWA C500 for
      a working pressure of 150 psi. All shall be mechanical joint with iron body,


2015 ED&CS                                 6-13                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                 Page 76 of 229


      resilient wedge seat type in accordance with AWWA C509 with a non-rising stem
      and open left with a double O-ring seal. Gate valves shall be installed in a vertical
      position.

      Valve Boxes shall be cast iron of the screw or telescopic type with a 5-inch opening
      with “water” stamped on the cover. Valve box ring adjustments will not be
      allowed. Locking valve boxes may be required as determined by the Executive
      Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services. All castings shall be made in the
      United States.

      Butterfly Valves shall be installed in waterlines 24 inches or greater. All shall
      meet the requirements of AWWA C504 with mechanical joints, 2-inch operating
      nut and open left.

      Blowoff Assemblies shall be constructed as shown in the Standard Details Section
      of these Standards. The valves shall be an AWWA iron body gate valve with a
      non-rising stem and a 2-inch operating nut.

      Pipe Fittings shall be compact fittings in accordance with AWWA C153. Joints
      for fittings shall be mechanical joint and lined with cement mortar with a seal coat
      of bituminous material, all in accordance with AWWA C104.

      Reaction Blocking for all fittings or components subject to hydrostatic thrust shall
      be securely anchored by the use of concrete thrust blocks poured in place. The
      required reaction areas are shown in the Standard Details Section of these
      Standards. Concrete shall be installed so that it does not interfere with the removal
      of fittings. Material for reaction blocking shall be 3000 psi concrete. Alternative
      restraining methods may be considered only in unusual circumstances and must be
      designed by a Professional Engineer registered in North Carolina and approved by
      the Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services.

      Tapping Sleeves shall be stainless steel sleeves with stainless steel flanges meeting
      the material requirement of AWWA C223 and AWWA C228. The sleeves shall be
      mechanical joint to the main line and flanged to the tapping valve. Mechanical
      joint outlet connections shall be compatible with ANSI/AWWA C111/A21.11.

      Tapping Saddles shall be used on mains 16 inches and larger. Saddles shall be
      made of stainless steel providing a factor of safety of 2.5 with a working pressure
      of 250 psi. Saddles shall be equipped with an AWWA C110 flange connection on
      the branch. Sealing gaskets shall be O-ring type, high quality molded rubber having
      an approximate 70 durometer hardness, placed into a groove on the curved surface
      of the saddles. Straps shall be alloy steel.

      The maximum size saddle outlet for each size of pipe to be tapped shall be as
      follows:



2015 ED&CS                                6-14                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                Page 77 of 229


                            Size pipe to be    Maximum size
                            tapped             saddle outlet
                            16”                8”
                            18”                8”
                            20”                10”
                            24” and larger     12”

       Combination Air Valves shall be of the single housing style that combines the
       operation of both an air/vacuum and air release valve. The valve shall be
       manufactured for a 150 PSIG working pressure and be sized by the Engineer. The
       valve must meet the requirements of AWWA C512 and be installed in accordance
       with the Standard Details Section of these Standards.

C.     Installation

       Valves shall be properly located, operable and at the correct elevation. All valves
       and reducers shall be rodded to a nearby tee or cross if possible. As shown in the
       Standard Details Section of these Standards. If reducers cannot be rodded, concrete
       blocking or other restraining methods will be required. The valve box shall be
       centered over the wrench nut and seated on compacted backfill without touching
       the valve assembly. The maximum depth of the valve nut shall be 5 feet, unless
       approved by the Executive Director of Utilities & Infrastructure Services. When
       valve extension kits are used, they must be manufactured by the same company
       which manufactured the valve.

       All valve boxes in roadways shall be encased in a trowel-finished 30” diameter
       circle by 12” thick circular pad of 3000 psi concrete beneath the asphalt course with
       the cover flush with the top of the pavement.

       Valve boxes outside roadways shall be flush with finished grade with a 2’x2’x6”
       concrete encasement or precast concrete donut.

       Precast concrete valve box encasements may be used for valve box encasement
       outside of paved areas only.


6.04   WATER SERVICE TAPS

A.     Materials

       Corporation Stops shall be brass, complete with a flared or compression coupling
       and AWWA Standard threads as per AWWA C800. Taps shall be located at 10 or
       2 o’clock on the circumference of the pipe. Service taps shall be staggered
       alternating from one side of the water main to the other, and at least 12 inches apart.
       The taps must be a minimum of 24 inches apart if they are on the same side of the
       pipe.


2015 ED&CS                                  6-15                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                  Page 78 of 229


      The maximum size of direct taps without a fitting, tapping sleeve or saddle for
      ductile iron water mains shall be as follows:

                              4” main - ¾” tap
                              6” main - 1” tap
                              8” main - 1¼” tap
                             10” main - 1½” tap
                             12” main - 2” tap

      No burned taps will be allowed and each corporation stop will be wrapped with
      Teflon tape for ductile iron pipe water mains.

      Service Saddles shall be bronze body (85-5-5 waterworks brass) and double strap
      for taps with silicon bronze nuts conforming to ASTM A98 and factory-installed
      grade 60 rubber gaskets.

      Copper Service Tubing shall be type K soft copper tubing per ASTM B88. The
      longest available length of service line should be used with no unions. As an
      example, for a ¾-inch service connection, no union shall be used in the installation
      of 100 feet or less. Unions shall be made with flare type couplings.

      Meter Boxes for ¾-inch Services shall be 18 inch depth cast iron MBX-1 and a
      complete unit (less meter) for setting a 5/8 by 3/4-inch water meter. Meter box
      grade adjuster rings are not acceptable.

      Meter Boxes for 1-inch Services shall be 18 inch depth cast iron box and cover
      with a meter yoke and/or copper resetter. Meter box grade adjuster rings are not
      acceptable.

      Meter Boxes for 1½ and 2-inch Services shall be lightweight polymer concrete as
      indicated in the Standard Details Section of these Standards. Piping for 1½ and 2-
      inch water meters shall be constructed from brass and copper tubing and shall be
      equipped with angled check valve outlets and by-pass flanged valve or by-pass
      flanged ball valve inlets. Meter boxes shall not be allowed in travel lanes or traffic
      areas. Meter box grade adjuster rings are not acceptable.

      Meters for ¾” services shall meet the requirements of AWWA C700 and be
      supplied by the Town of Holly Springs. Coordinate installation with the Town.

      Meters for services 1 inch and greater shall meet the requirements of AWWA
      C700 and be paid for by the Developer. Coordinate installation with the Town. .
      Meters 2 inches and greater shall require a 2 inch bypass and shall require a meter
      test port. A strainer shall be provided upstream of the meter.

      Meter Boxes shall not be located in sidewalk or travel lanes, except as noted below.


2015 ED&CS                                 6-16                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                 Page 79 of 229


      Meter Vaults within paved areas shall meet HS-20 loading requirements and shall
      be located outside travel areas. The access door shall be aluminum with a flush
      drop lift handle, stainless steel hinges and bolts, a stainless steel slam lock, an
      automatic hold open arm, and compression springs to allow for easy opening.
      Positive drainage shall be provided for all meter vaults. Positive drainage shall be
      construed to mean a “daylight” drain not less than 4” schedule 40 PVC pipe with
      flap valve on the end. Vault dimensions must be sized to ensure pipe work will fit
      within the vault. When installing pipe work, ensure it is spaced evenly within the
      vault.

      All vaults over 2” in size shall be in below ground vault unless in riser room.

B.    Individual Water Services

      Individual water services shall be provided from the main to each water meter for
      single family residences in accordance with the Standard Details section of these
      Standards. Multi-family units may be in accordance with the Standard Detail for
      multi-family units in the Standard Details section of these Standards. All
      connections shall be made by wet taps.

      Service connections shall be made perpendicular from the main line and shall run
      straight horizontally toward the meter and then vertically to the meter which shall
      be located at the edge of the right of way or easement of the served property. Refer
      to the standard detail on water service installations for more information. No water
      meter box or vault shall be located in streets, sidewalks, or parking areas in
      residential areas. For non-residential development, individual services are required
      for each business space. In non-residential areas, meter locations shall be approved
      on a case-by-case basis. Provisions for backflow prevention shall be as specified
      in Section 6.06 of these Standards.

      All water service connections to existing and new water manis shall be made by a
      licensed Contractor in the State of North Carolina and in accordance with these
      Standards.

      Water meters shall be sized based on water demand. Water meter size shall be
      determined from the following table; or as otherwise specified by the Executive
      Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services. All non-residential projects shall
      submit sealed calculations prepared in conformance with the AWWA Manual of
      Practice for approval of type of meter and meter size by the Town.




2015 ED&CS                                6-17                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                Page 80 of 229


                                       WATER METER SIZING
                                                            Load Range
                                                       (number of fixture units)
              Meter         Flow        Supply Systems      Supply Systems Predominately for
               Size        Range       Predominately for               Flush Valves
             (inches)      (GPM)          Flush Tanks
             5/8” PD        0 - 20            1 – 22                        1-8
              1” PD        20 - 50           22 – 140                      9 - 50
             1½” PD       50 - 100          140 – 450                     50 - 275
               2” C      100 - 200         450 – 1000                    275 - 1000
               3” C      200 - 400        1000 – 2500                   1000 - 2500
               4” C      400 - 600        2500 – 5000                   2500 - 5000

             PD = Positive Displacement
             T = Turbine (may be required on a case-by-case basis)
             C = Compound (must be sized on a case-by-case basis)


6.05   CLEARANCE BETWEEN WATER MAINS, AND NON-POTABLE
       WATER LINES

       Water mains shall be laid at least 10 feet laterally (measured edge to edge) from
       existing or proposed sanitary sewer unless local conditions or barriers prevent a
       10-foot lateral separation--in which case:

       (1)       The water main is laid in a separate trench, with the elevation of the bottom
                 of the water main at least 18 inches above the top of the sewer; or
       (2)       The water main is laid in the same trench as the sewer with the water main
                 located at one side on a bench of undisturbed earth, and with the elevation
                 of the bottom of the water main at least 18 inches above the top of the sewer.

       Water mains shall be laid at least 10 feet laterally (measured edge to edge) or 18-
       icnhes above existing or proposed reclaimed water distribution lines, in accordance
       with the most recent revision to 15A NCAC 18C .0906 (e).

       A water main that crosses a sewer/reclaimed line shall be laid a minimum vertical
       distance of 18 inches from the outside of the water main and the outside of the
       sewer/reclaimed, either above or below the sewer/reclaimed, with preference to the
       water main located above the sewer/reclaimed. One full length of water pipe shall
       be located so that both joints will be as far from the sewer/reclaimed as possible.

       When water mains must cross sewer mains, the water mains shall cross at an
       approximate 90° angle unless adequate vertical separation is provided.



2015 ED&CS                                    6-18                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                    Page 81 of 229


       Where it is infeasible to maintain the required 18 inches of vertical separation
       between a water main and a sanitary sewer main, a Professional Engineer licensed
       in the state of North Carolina can submit justification of the deviation according to
       special conditions lister under the most recent revision of 15A NCAC .0906 (c) and
       .0906 (f).

       To allow for construction and repair, a minimum distance of 12 inches shall be
       maintained between the outside of the water main and the outside of all other
       utilities. Where it is infeasible to maintain the required 12 inches of vertical
       separation between a water main and other utilities, a Professional Engineer
       licensed in the state of North Carolina must seek to defend a special consideration
       per 15A NCAC .0904(c).


       Water lines that cross and run beneath storm drainage pipes that are greater than or
       equal to 42” diameter (single pipe) or 36” diameter (multiple pipes) and/or streams
       or creeks shall be installed as restrained joint pipe and enclosed in casing pipe. A
       minimum cover of 5 feet shall be provided over the pipe for underwater stream
       crossings, in accordance with the Recommended Standards for Water Works (Ten
       State Standards) and the Rules Governing Public Water Systems. Installation may
       be by bore and jack or excavation at discretion of Executive Director of Utilities
       and Infrastructure Services.

       For required separation and clearance from water main to reclaimed water reference
       Section 11.00.

6.06   BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS CONNECTION

A.     General

       Cross-Connection shall mean any unprotected actual or potential connection or
       structural arrangement between a public or a consumer’s water system and any
       other source or system through which it is possible to introduce any contamination
       or pollution, other than the intended potable water with which the system is
       supplied. All construction shall be required to comply with the Town of Holly
       Springs Ordinance for the Control of Backflow and Cross-Connection No. 03-09
       in its entirety, in addition to the following:

       All residential water services for domestic purposes shall be provided with a dual
       check backflow prevention device on the meter setter within the meter box. Dual
       check valves must comply with AWWA Standard C-510.

       All irrigation services and non-residential services shall be provided with reduced
       pressure principle backflow prevention installed in accordance with the State of
       North Carolina and the Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic
       Research at the University of South Carolina (USC) and AWWA Standard C-511.


2015 ED&CS                                 6-19                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                 Page 82 of 229


       This includes all service connections to fire sprinkler systems. Reduced pressure
       zone (RPZ) backflow preventers shall be installed aboveground immediately
       behind the meter (on the private side). Alternate installations shall comply with
       Town Ordinance 03-09 as noted above, and require approval of the Executive
       Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services. Above-ground installations that
       service any use other than single family residential users will require an insulated
       box mounted on a 4” concrete slab, wired for a heater and provided with a heater.
       A 4” concrete slab shall be provided for underground RPZ’s and for insulated
       boxes.

6.07   AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS

A.     General

       Working drawings and calculations for all fire sprinkler systems and standpipe
       systems, prepared by a Professional Engineer registered in North Carolina, shall be
       submitted to the Town of Holly Springs Inspection Department for approval before
       installation begins.

B.     Design

       Approved working plans shall be in complete compliance with NFPA No. 13, 13D,
       13R, 14, 231, 231C, 231F and Town specifications. A NFPA above ground material
       and test certificate, and a NFPA underground material and test certificate are
       required after completion of designated and approved work. Design shall include
       backflow prevention measures, details on any proposed fire pumps and/or tanks,
       calculations to ensure that the allowable pressures in the Town system are
       maintained. Flow data for system design shall be field-verified by the designer.
       The Town will provide assistance with opening valves and hydrants for the
       collection of data. Fire lanes are required in front of all FDC, Riser Rooms, Fire
       Hydrants, PIV, and other entrances and exits as determined by the Town or Office
       of the Fire Marshal.

C.     Post Indicator Valve (PIV)

       A post indicator valve (PIV) shall be provided on the Town’s side at the right of
       way or edge of easement. The valve shall be locked in open position monitored by
       an electronic tamper switch. When backflow prevention devices are contained
       within a building, an outside access (above the finish floor elevation) shall be
       provided. The top of the post indicator valve shall be installed at 30-42 inches from
       the finished grade, minimum of 5’ of unobstructed access perimeter shall be
       maintained around the PIV and must be protected from vehicular obstruction. The
       Town shall maintain up to, but not including, the post indicator valve. The post
       indicator valve shall be painted red and must be protected from vehicular
       obstruction with means of steel bollards when not located behind curb. In urban
       settings, a wall mounted indicator valve may be used where there is no suitable


2015 ED&CS                                 6-20                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                 Page 83 of 229


      location for a post mounted indicator valve. Wall mounted indicator valves shall be
      centered 30-42 inches above the finished grade. It shall be greater than 10 feet from
      any door, window or protected opening along the wall.

      Post indicator valve is to be located as close as possible to the tap of the water main.

D.    Backflow Prevention

      When a fire protection system is proposed an RPZ type backflow prevention device
      as approved by USC (with make and model specified) shall be required. RPZ’s
      shall be located inside a riser room in a location shown on the construction plans.
      Existing structures shall be exempt from this section until such time any structure
      is sold, remodeled or improvements to the property exceeding the sum of $2,500.00
      are made, or a new occupancy permit is otherwise required for the property.


E.    Fire Department Connection (FDC)

      Where automatic fire sprinkler systems or standpipe systems are used, a Fire
      Department Connection (FDC) with check valve [reference detail section 6,
      HS625] shall be red in color, provided on the street side of buildings, fully visible
      and recognizable from the street or nearest point of fire department vehicle access
      or as otherwise approved by the Office of the Fire Marshal. The Fire Department
      Connection shall be located 36 inches above proposed grade and within 100 feet of
      a fire hydrant and at fall zone line or as specified by the Office of the Fire Marshall,
      and shall be located so that nothing obstructs direct access. A 5 foot clearance shall
      be provided around the FDC connection and labeled with 6 inch contrasting colored
      letters. When a sprinkler system serves only part of a large structure, the fire
      department connection shall be labeled as to which section of the structure that
      sprinkler riser serves. This labeling shall be a minimum of 2 inch lettering on a
      permanent sign. FDC shall have a 5” Storz connection with chained cap. FDC’s
      can be mounted on single story buildings only.

F.    Dedicated Riser Room

      A dedicated sprinkler riser room providing an entry door to the room from the
      exterior of the building in accordance with NC Building Code shall be provided.
      All dedicated riser rooms shall be equipped with a floor drain sized appropriately
      to prevent flooding. The floor drain shall be piped to storm system or main building
      drain. The floor drain shall be provided with a circular raised ring/hub around the
      floor drain to prevent debris and/or chemicals from entering the drain during an
      emergency spill. The hub shall be fabricated of cast iron or other corrosion resistant
      material and extend at least 3 inches above floor elevation. The exterior riser room
      door plus all other required or Town designated fire exits shall have a protected
      clearance of 5 feet from any obstruction by vehicular movement by means of
      curbing, bollards, or concrete bumpers.


2015 ED&CS                                 6-21                              Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                  Page 84 of 229


G.    Access

      Any building, other than a residential building with less than four units, shall have
      installed a “Knox Box”, a key box entry system per North Carolina Fire Code, to
      be used by the local fire department in case of emergency. The key box shall contain
      master keys necessary for access to all portions of the premises. The Office of the
      Fire Marshal may specify such supplemental information as floor plans, lists of
      chemicals and hazardous materials located within the building to be required within
      the Knox Box.

      This Knox Box shall be mounted on the exterior entrance to the dedicated riser
      room or at the normal fire department entrance when there is no dedicated riser
      room. Mount Knox Box on wall at 5 feet A.F.F. on door handle side of dedicated
      riser room door or normal fire department entrance door. This Knox Box shall be
      ordered online at www.knoxbox.com and shall be in place before a Certificate of
      Occupancy is issued. Keys to access the facility shall be provided to the Town Fire
      Department by the owner/manager.

      Existing structures shall be exempt from this section until such time as any such
      structure is sold, remodeled or improvements to the property, exceeding the sum of
      $2,500.00, are made, or a new occupancy permit is otherwise required for the
      property.

H.    Identification

      The exterior door leading to the dedicated sprinkler riser room shall be labeled with
      minimum 4 inch lettering designating “SPRINKLER RISER ROOM” in a
      contrasting color. Durable vinyl lettering is suggested.

I.    Installation

      All gas or electrical panels must be protected with steel bollards from vehicular
      traffic.

J.    Fire Alarm Panel Location

      When a building is protected by an automatic sprinkler system and has a fire alarm
      system, the fire alarm control panel or a remote annunciation of the fire alarm
      control panel shall be placed in the sprinkler riser room. This control panel shall
      have the capacity of silencing and resetting. Adjacent to the fire alarm control panel
      shall be a mounted framed zone map, removable from the wall. Nomenclature shall
      correspond with the zone map.

      When there is no sprinkler system in building, the fire alarm control panel or remote
      annunciator shall be located at the normal fire department entrance.



2015 ED&CS                                 6-22                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                 Page 85 of 229


6.08 FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS

A.    Fire Access and Fire Lanes

      Fire Access
      The following guidelines represent the Town’s efforts to maintain consistency
      concerning Fire Department emergency access. It is the Town’s responsibility to
      ensure adequate access for the Fire Department and other responding agencies. The
      Town therefore reserves the right to require modifications to established
      requirements if, in the Town’s opinion, the access cannot be provided or may be
      compromised.

      All access roadways shall be built to street standards as described in the Town’s
      Engineering Design and Construction Standards. The roadway design shall be
      prepared and certified by a Design Professional. All required access roadways shall
      be properly maintained and kept clear for emergency use at all times. Any
      alternatives to these specifications shall be reviewed and approved by the Office of
      the Fire Marshal prior to construction.

      FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROAD – A road that provides fire apparatus access
      from a fire station to a facility, building or portion thereof. This is a general term
      inclusive of all other terms such as fire lane, Public Street, Private Street, parking
      lot lane, alley ways and access roadway.

      FIRE LANE – A road or other passageway developed to allow the passage of fire
      apparatus. A fire lane is not necessarily intended for vehicular traffic other than fire
      apparatus.

      Approved fire apparatus access roads shall be provided for every facility, building
      or portion of a building hereafter constructed or moved into or within the
      jurisdiction. The fire apparatus access road shall comply with the requirements of
      the NC Fire Code and Town Standards and shall extend to within 150 feet of all
      portions of the facility or all portions of the exterior wall of the first story of the
      building as measured by an approved route around the exterior of the building or
      facility. The fire official is authorized to increase the 150 feet where:
      The building is equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system
      installed in accordance with the NC Fire Code and applicable NFPA standards.
      Fire apparatus access roads cannot be installed due to location on property,
      topography, waterways, non-negotiable grades or other similar conditions, and an
      approved alternative means of fire protection is provided.
      There are not more than two Group R-3 or Group U occupancies.

      Fire department apparatus access to buildings used for high-piled combustible
      storage shall comply with the applicable provisions of the NC Fire Code.



2015 ED&CS                                 6-23                              Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                  Page 86 of 229


       Fire apparatus access roads shall have an unobstructed width of not less than 20
      feet and an unobstructed vertical clearance of not less than 13 feet 6 inches.
      The Office of the Fire Marshal shall have the authority to require an increase in the
      minimum access widths where they are inadequate for fire or rescue operations.
      Fire apparatus access roads shall be designed and maintained to support the
      imposed loads of fire apparatus and shall be surfaced so as to provide all-weather
      driving capabilities.
      Dead-end fire apparatus access roads in excess of 150 feet (45 720 mm) in length
      shall be provided with an approved area for turning around fire apparatus. Proposed
      turn around area shall not be located within proposed residential lots. See TOHS
      Detail HS367
      Grass pavers are also an acceptable alternative to concrete, asphalt or gravel for the
      120’ Hammerhead or the acceptable alternative to the 120’ Hammerhead.
      Specification and data sheets on the proposed pavers will need to be submitted to
      the Fire Department for approval
      Where a bridge or an elevated surface is part of a fire apparatus access road, the
      bridge shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with AASHTO Standard
      Specification for Highway Bridges. Bridges and elevated surfaces shall be designed
      for a live load sufficient to carry the imposed loads of fire apparatus. Vehicle load
      limits shall be posted at both entrances to bridges when required by the code
      official. Where elevated surfaces designed for emergency vehicle use are adjacent
      to surfaces which are not designed for such use, approved barriers, approved signs
      or both shall be installed and maintained when required by the code official.
      The grade of the fire apparatus access road shall be within the limits established by
      the Office of the Fire Marshal based on the fire department’s apparatus.

B.    Gates

      Gates securing the fire apparatus access roads shall comply with all of the following
      criteria:
      The minimum unobstructed gate width shall be 20 feet.
      The gate shall have a Knox Box mounted to it, with keys or access cards to open
      the gate in the event of an emergency.
      Gates shall be of the swinging or sliding type, unless approved by the Office of the
      Fire Marshal.
      Gate components shall be maintained in an operative condition at all times and
      replaced or repaired when defective.
      Electric gates shall be equipped with a means of opening the gate by fire department
      personnel for emergency access. Emergency opening devices shall be approved by
      Office of the Fire Marshal.
      Manual opening gates shall not be locked with a padlock or chain and padlock
      unless they are capable of being opened by means of forcible entry tools; locking
      device specifications shall be submitted for approval by the Office of The Fire
      Marshal.




2015 ED&CS                                 6-24                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                 Page 87 of 229


      The Office of the Fire Marshal is authorized to require the installation and
      maintenance of gates or other approved barricades across fire apparatus access
      roads, trails or other access ways, not including public streets, alleys or highways.
      When required, gates and barricades shall be secured in an approved manner.
      Roads, trails and other access ways that have been closed or obstructed shall not be
      trespassed on or used unless authorized by the owner and the Office of the Fire
      Marshal.
      The installation of security gates across a fire apparatus access road shall be
      approved by the Office of the Fire Marshal. Where security gates are installed, they
      shall have an approved means of emergency operation. The security gates and the
      emergency operation shall be maintained operational at all times. Electric gate
      operators, where provided, shall be listed in accordance with UL 325. Gates
      intended for automatic operation shall be designed, constructed and installed to
      comply with the requirements of ASTM F 2200.

C.    Two Points of Access

      The Office of the Fire Marshal may require more than one fire apparatus access
      road based on the potential for impairment of a single road by vehicle congestion,
      condition of terrain, climatic conditions or other factors that could limit access.
      When two points of access are required, they shall be placed a distance apart of at
      least one half of the length of the maximum overall diagonal dimension of the
      property or area to be served, measured in a straight line between accesses. The
      Town shall not allow the second access point to be limited to use by emergency
      responders only. The second access shall always be available for public use in case
      the other access is blocked.
      Buildings or facilities located in Commercial and Industrial Developments and
      exceeding 30 feet or 3 stories in height shall have at least 2 means of fire apparatus
      access. Buildings or facilities having a gross building area of more than 62,000
      square feet shall have at least 2 means of fire apparatus access. If the buildings or
      facilities are provided with an approved automatic fire sprinkler system, the gross
      building area can be increased to 124,000 square feet with one access road.
      Fire apparatus access roadways shall have a minimum unobstructed width of 26
      feet in the immediate vicinity of any building of portion of building more than 30
      feet in height. At least one of the required access routes meeting this condition shall
      be located within a minimum of 15 feet and a maximum of 30 feet from the
      building, and shall be positioned parallel to one entire side of the building.
      Maintenance of the required access shall be considered during the planning stages
      and installation of Fire Department access roadways, fire hydrants, or connections.
      This includes the potential growth of trees and/or other vegetation over the years.


D.    Fire Lanes

      A plan shall be submitted for approval to the Office of the Fire Marshal which
      indicates all fire lanes and proposed fire lane sign placements for the project site.


2015 ED&CS                                 6-25                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                 Page 88 of 229


      The general requirement designates that any building located more than 150 feet
      from a public road, or which exceeds 30 feet in height and is set back more than 50
      feet from a public road, shall have a fire lane.
      Fire lanes shall be a minimum width of 20 feet and shall be properly marked and
      signed to designate the access as a “fire lane” as specified by the Office of the Fire
      Marshal. For specifications of the fire lane cross section, refer to Section 3 of these
      standards.
      All fire lanes shall be marked in accordance with one of the following requirements:
      Continuously painted yellow striping along the fire lane with “No Parking - Fire
      Lane” printed with minimum 8-inch high letters at 40-foot intervals or as directed
      by the Office of the Fire Marshal;
      Continuously painted yellow curb along the fire lane with “No Parking - Fire Lane”
      printed with minimum 8-inch high letters at 40-foot intervals or as directed by the
      Office of the Fire Marshal;
      The installation of the MUTCD standard sign showing “No Parking - Fire Lane”
      placed at each end of the fire lane and at 50-foot intervals with arrows on the signs
      or a continuously painted yellow strip along both sides of the fire lane (or an
      additional sign beneath the fire lane sign lettered as “both sides”). Signs shall be a
      type R8-31 or equivalent reflective sign no less than 12 inches x 18 inches in size,
      white background, with the wording “No Parking - Fire Lane” in red letters.

      Signs shall be posted at the following minimum height:
      60 inches to the top of the sign when pedestrians do not pass by or under the sign.
      This application includes signs mounted on the building face, a column, or other
      fixed mounting surface;
      84 inches to the top of the sign when the pedestrian path does pass by or beneath
      the sign. This application includes signs mounted on a fixed metal post located in a
      sidewalk and/or traffic island.




2015 ED&CS                                 6-26                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                 Page 89 of 229


       The above fire lane requirements shall also apply to all fire hydrant islands located
       along the face and sides of a hydrant.
       Fire Lanes shall be installed and inspected in accordance with these Standard
       Specifications as well as the NC Fire Code. The Office of the Fire Marshal shall
       have the authority to designate fire lanes as deemed necessary for Fire Department
       access.
       Roadways, driveways, and access ways shall not be marked as fire lanes without
       first obtaining approval from the Office of the Fire Marshal.

E.     Fire Safety During Construction

       There shall be no open burning within the Town’s jurisdiction, unless approved by
       the Office of the Fire Marshal.

       Fire Safety during construction, alteration, or demolition shall be maintained
       according to the NC Fire Code and other applicable provisions of NFPA 241.

       Fire safety during construction and demolition is essential to maintain a safe and
       efficient project. The use of temporary heating equipment, flammable and
       combustible liquids storage, use and dispensing, explosives storage, handling and
       use, and all other general fire safety requirements shall be adhered to according to
       the NC Fire Code.

       Vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition
       sites. Vehicle access shall be provided within 100 feet of temporary or permanent
       fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be provided by either temporary
       or permanent roads, capable of supporting vehicle loading under all weather
       conditions.

       The fire protection water supply system, including fire hydrants, shall be installed
       and be in at least the functional status prior to placing combustible materials on the
       project site. If phased construction is planned, coordinated installation of the fire
       protection water system is permitted.

       Any existing fire hydrant removed from service due to construction/demolition
       activities shall be placed back into service by the Owner/Developer within 14
       calendar days from the date it was taken out of service or a timeframe approved by
       the Office of the Fire Marshal.

       The Fire Department shall be notified at least 24 hours before fire hydrant(s) or
       water line impairment.


6.09   TESTING AND INSPECTION




2015 ED&CS                                  6-27                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                  Page 90 of 229


      Under no circumstance shall any waterline system valve be operated without prior
      approval by the Development Inspector. Damage to Town infrastructure resulting
      from illegal operation of valves shall be the responsibility of the Contractor. In
      addition, the Contractor shall be subject to a fine for operating a valve without prior
      approval.

      All materials shall be inspected by the Development Inspector before they shall be
      allowed to be installed. Materials rejected by the Development Inspector shall be
      immediately removed from the job site.

      The Contractor shall furnish all materials, labor, equipment, and shall pay for the
      water used to perform all testing and inspections to the satisfaction of the
      Development Inspector. The Contractor shall obtain a Water Blowoff Permit from
      the Town Engineering Department for use when blowing off water mains.

      Water service taps shall not be made until after all water main testing is completed,
      and bacteriological testing is satisfactory.

A.    Hydrostatic Testing

      Hydrostatic testing shall be done in accordance with AWWA C600. No valve in
      the existing Town of Holly Springs water system shall be operated without
      authorization from the Construction Inspector via a Water Blowoff Permit. Each
      section of line which is to be hydrostatically tested shall be slowly filled with water
      at a rate which will allow complete evacuation of air from the line. Once the line
      is full, it shall be blown off at a minimum of 2.5 FPS to flush and remove any
      debris. The line must be pretested at 200 psi provided that 200 psi is no less than
      1.25 times the stated working pressure of the pipeline measured at the highest
      elevation along the test section and no less than 1.5 times the stated working
      pressure of the pipeline measured at the lowest elevation along the test section for
      2 hours prior to contacting inspector for testing. Hand pumps shall not be used for
      the pressure testing of water mains. Taps used for testing purposes shall be
      removed after testing in accordance with Section 6.11 of these Standards.

      Each water line shall be tested to a pressure of 200 psi as measured at the lowest
      elevation of the line, provided that 200 psi is no less than 1.25 times the stated
      working pressure of the pipeline measured at the highest elevation along the test
      section and no less than 1.5 times the stated working pressure of the pipeline
      measured at the lowest elevation along the test section for a duration of 2 hours.
      The test pressure shall not exceed the thrust restraint design pressures or 1.5 times
      the pressure rating of the pipe or joint, whichever is less (as specified by the
      manufacturer). The pressure gauge used in the hydrostatic test shall be calibrated
      in increments of 10 psi or less. At the end of the test period, the leakage shall be
      measured with an accurate water meter. Note that all visible leaks are to be repaired
      regardless of the amount of leakage. The Development Inspector may require
      pressure tests to be performed in smaller segments to determine if there is a problem


2015 ED&CS                                 6-28                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                 Page 91 of 229


      with a particular section of waterline. No chlorine dosage will be allowed in line
      during testing.

      Fire line need to be tested all the way up to the slab through the riser room by the
      Development Inspector.



           ALLOWABLE LEAKAGE

           Pipe Size (inches)   Amount of Allowable Leakage (gallons per 1000 feet of
                                pipe)
           4                    0.85
           6                    1.28
           8                    1.70
           12                   2.56
           16                   3.40
           20                   4.24
           24                   5.10


B.    Chlorination

      All additions or replacements to the water system shall be chlorinated before being
      placed in service. Such chlorination must take place under the supervision of the
      Construction Inspector.

      Chlorination of a completed line shall be carried out in the following manner:

      1)        The specific procedure and order of testing shall follow ANSI/AWWA
                C651 and be approved by the Construction Inspector before beginning the
                chlorination process.

      2)        Taps shall be made at the control valve at the upstream end of the line and
                at all extremities of the line including valves.

      3)        Before the main is chlorinated, it shall be filled with potable water to
                eliminate air pockets and flushed to remove particulates. Flushing velocity
                in the main shall no be less than 3 feet per second.


      3)      Drinking water treatment chemicals and drinking water system components
      shall be ANSI/NSF Standard 60 and 61 compliant. In accordance with
      ANSI/AWWA C651 4.1.3., a solution of water containing calcium hypochlorite
      (HTH, 65% available chlorine by weight) shall be introduced into the line by
      regulated pumping at the control-valve tap. Using ANSI/AWWA C651 4.4


2015 ED&CS                                  6-29                            Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                 Page 92 of 229


       Continuous Feed Method of Chlorination, the solution shall be of such a
       concentration that the line shall have a uniform concentration of 50 ppm total
       chlorine immediately after chlorination.

       4)     The HTH solution shall be circulated in the main by opening the control
              valve and systematically manipulating hydrants and taps at the line
              extremities. The HTH solution must be pumped in at a constant rate for
              each discharge rate in order that a uniform concentration will be produced
              in mains. Note that for projects that are surrounded by populated
              development areas, the Construction Inspector can require that the
              circulation of HTH solution be accompanied with mechanical pumping.

       5)     HTH solution shall remain in lines for no less than 24 hours or as directed
              by the Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services.

       6)     Extreme care shall be exercised at all times to prevent the HTH solution
              from entering existing mains.

C.     Bacteriological Sampling

       All new water systems shall be valved off from the existing water system until a
       satisfactory bacteriological sample is obtained and the Construction Inspector has
       authorized the use of the new water system.

       1.     Free residual chlorine after 24 hours shall be at least 10 ppm or the
              Construction Inspector shall require that the lines be rechlorinated.

       2.     Flushing of lines may proceed after 24 hours, provided the free residual
              chlorine analysis is satisfactory. Flushing shall be continued until a
              chlorine test kit shows that the lines contain only the normal chlorine
              residual.

       3.     Samples for bacteriological analysis shall be collected by the Construction
              Inspector a minimum of 16 hours after flushing is completed. The
              Contractor shall furnish such help as may be required to secure the required
              samples. Samples shall be collected and delivered to the Utley Creek Water
              Reclamation Facility Laboratory or other state-approved, certified
              laboratory by the Construction Inspector.

       4.     If bacteriological test results are unsatisfactory, the Contractor shall
              immediately obtain another Water Blowoff Permit, rechlorinate and retest
              the lines, proceeding with such measures as are necessary to secure
              properly disinfected lines.

6.10   FIRE PROTECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION



2015 ED&CS                                6-30                            Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                               Page 93 of 229


       The fire protection water supply system, including fire hydrants, shall be installed
       and tested prior to placing combustible materials on the project site.

6.11   IRRIGATION SYSTEMS

       No mainlines or valves shall be allowed within the utility strip (between the
       sidewalk and curb). Lateral will be allowed and shall be placed within 1 ft of
       sidewalk. Pipe material for all lines within the public right of way shall be a
       minimum of 2 feet deep and Schedule 40 PVC or greater for all lateral irrigation
       lines.

       Irrigation systems shall have a backflow preventer installed in accordance with
       Section 6.06 of these Standards. All irrigation systems are required to secure a
       plumbing permit from the Code Enforcement Department prior to installation and
       shall be inspected after installation. A separate meter is required for irrigation
       systems.

       All irrigation line street crossings shall be contained within a ductile iron or steel
       encasement pipe. The Town may, in some instances, permit irrigation systems
       installed in the medians of Town-maintained roadways. These systems must also
       have french drains installed behind the curb and gutter and piped to a storm
       drainage collection system. These systems shall be allowed only when some
       permanent mechanism is established for the private perpetual maintenance of the
       system(s).

       Wells may be kept maintained for irrigation purposes after public utility
       connection, if they are on the opposite side of the single-family dwelling where the
       public water and/or sewer service is located.

6.12   REPAIR AND ABANDONMENT

       Joint Leaks of cast iron pipe, ductile iron pipe, and PVC pipe shall use a bell joint
       leak repair clamp as manufactured by Rockwell, or other approved equal.

       Line Breaks or Punctures shall be repaired by a full circle repair clamp as
       manufactured by Rockwell, Mueller, or other approved equal.

       Line Splits or Blow Outs shall be repaired by replacing the damaged section with
       ductile iron pipe with a cast iron coupling at each end. The following cast pipe
       couplings shall be used for each pipe material indicated:

       A.C. Pipe - Rockwell 441 cast coupling or other approved equal
       Ductile Iron Pipe - Rockwell 431 cast coupling or other approved equal
       PVC Pipe - Rockwell 411 cast coupling or other approved equal




2015 ED&CS                                  6-31                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                                  Page 94 of 229


      For A.C. Pipe to PVC or Ductile Iron Pipe connections, use a cast pipe coupling
      with different end diameters sized specifically for the pipe materials, and pipe
      outside diameter at each end.

   A. Water Service Line Repairs

      a. A water service line severed between the water main and the water meter shall
         be repaired using new type K copper tubing and bronze or brass 3-piece flare
         unions.

      b. A corporation stop pulled out of a PVC pipe water main shall have a new service
         saddle and a new corporation stop installed on the water main.

      c. A corporation stop pulled out of a ductile iron pipe water main shall have a full
         circle repair clamp placed over the old tap hole. A new tap shall be made and
         a new corporation stop installed on the water main.

   B. Abandonment of Existing Water Mains

         a. Water distribution pipe abandonment involves removing the pipe and any
            related appurtenances from service and leaving them in such a manner that
            no risk is posed to public health and safety.

         b. Existing water mains located outside of road sections shall be removed,
            unless otherwise directed by the Town. All materials and labor shall be
            provided by the contractor.

         c. With prior approval from the Executive Director of Utilities &
            Infrastructure, grout filling and abandoning in place, in accordance with
            minimum NCDOT standards, may be allowed.

         d. Pipe and appurtenances that are to be removed due to a conflict with the
            proposed work shall be drained of all contents, removed, and disposed as
            part of the excavation process.

         e. Water distribution pipe shall be physically disconnected and the active
            water distribution pipe capped and thrust restrained. Once separated from
            the active pipe, the pipe specified for abandonment shall be drained and
            pumped entirely full with cement grout. The cement grout shall have
            specified compressive strength and shall be of an appropriate consistency
            to completely fill the water distribution pipe.

         f. Gate valves shall be completely closed, the valve box removed and disposed
            of, the resultant void space backfilled with a minimum 500-psi compressive
            strength, quick setting, non-excavatable flowable fill, and a standard asphalt
            repair patch installed. This shall be in accordance with minimum NCDOT
            standards.


2015 ED&CS                                6-32                            Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                               Page 95 of 229


   C. Abandonment of Existing Water Services

         a. Contractors abandoning water services shall remove the entire service stub.
            When available, a mechanical plug shall be used to abandon the corporation
            stop. If equipment necessary to plug the main is not available, the
            corporation stop shall be turned off and capped. A ½” PVC pipe shall extend
            a minimum of 12” above the capped corporation stop, wrapped at least 3
            times with caution tape to identify an abandoned tap. All remaining portions
            of the service stub shall be removed from the main to the right of way line
            and shall be disposed of properly.

   D. Fire Hydrant Assembly Abandonment

         a. The fire hydrant assembly specified for abandonment shall have the
            associated gate valve completely closed, the valve box removed and
            disposed of, the resultant void space backfilled with a minimum 500-psi
            compressive strength, quick setting, non-excavatable flowable fill, and a
            standard asphalt repair patch installed. The hydrant shall then be removed,
            salvaged and returned to the Town and the existing water main capped and
            thrust blocked. The void space shall be backfilled with flowable fill and the
            final 2 feet below ground level backfilled with topsoil and restored.

   E. Blowoff Assembly Abandonment

         a. The blowoff assembly specified for abandonment shall have the associated
            gate valve completely closed, the blowoff assembly removed and disposed
            of, the resultant void space backfilled with a minimum 500-psi compressive
            strength, quick setting, non-excavatable flowable fill, and a standard asphalt
            repair patch installed.

   F. Combination Air Valve Abandonment

         a. Paved Area: The air valve specified for abandonment in a paved area or
            within 5 feet of a roadway shall have the valve completely closed and the
            associated manhole ring, cover, and chimney removed and disposed of. The
            barrel of the manhole shall then be filled with non-excavatable flowable fill
            from the bottom of the manhole to within 8 inches of the surface of the
            roadway. The pavement shall be replaced as specified elsewhere in the
            Contract Documents.

         b. Unpaved Area: The air valve specified for abandonment in an unpaved area
            more than 5 feet from a roadway shall have the valve completely closed and
            the associated manhole ring, cover, and chimney removed and disposed of.
            The uppermost barrel sections of the manhole shall be removed up to a
            depth of at least 6 feet from the ground surface. The manhole barrel shall be
            filled with aggregate base course to within 12 inches of the ground surface.
            The manhole barrel shall be filled and tamped in 8 inch lifts with aggregate


2015 ED&CS                               6-33                             Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                               Page 96 of 229


             base course and compacted to a minimum of ninety percent (90%) Standard
             Proctor density. The upper 12 inches shall be filled with screened topsoil
             and graded uniformly with the surrounding area. The area shall be seeded
             and mulched.




                             END OF SECTION 6.00




2015 ED&CS                              6-34                           Supp #10 June 2024

                                                                                            Page 97 of 229


                                 SECTION 7.00
                               SANITARY SEWER

                                   SUB-INDEX

7.01   GRAVITY SEWER MAINS

       A.    General
       B.    Design
       C.    Materials
       D.    Additional Requirements for Flexible and Semi-Rigid Sanitary Sewer Pipe

7.02   MOVED to NEW Section 13

7.03   MANHOLES

       A.    Materials

7.04   SERVICE CONNECTIONS

       A.    Materials
       B.    Installation
       C.    Grease Interceptor

7.05   TESTING AND INSPECTION

7.06   REPAIRS, MODIFICATIONS, AND ABANDONMENT
       A.   Sewer Main Repairs
       B.   Installation
       C.   Abandonment of Existing Sewer Mains

7.07   MOVED to NEW Section 13




2015 ED&CS                              7-1                            Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 98 of 229


                                       SECTION 7.00
                                     SANITARY SEWER


7.01   GRAVITY SEWER MAINS

A.     General

       Gravity sewer extensions shall meet all requirements of these standards. In
       addition, the Minimum Design Criteria for the Permitting of Gravity Sewers and
       Alternative Design Criteria for Minimum Separation for Sewer Systems to
       Wetlands, prepared by the Division of Water Resources of NC DEQ, and the North
       Carolina Administrative Code Title 15A Chapter 02 Subchapter T Waste Not
       Discharged to Surface Waters (15A NCAC 02T) are hereby incorporated into the
       Town’s standards for gravity sewer design. This specification section identifies
       minimum equipment and construction requirements for gravity sewer extensions
       that are to be owned and operated by the Town of Holly Springs. This section does
       not address every aspect of gravity sewer extensions; it is the design engineer’s
       (Designer’s) responsibility to supplement these requirements as necessary to
       produce a complete set of plans and specifications.

       All utility extension permits must be obtained prior to construction. Refer to the
       Town Code of Ordinances Section 16 for further requirements.

B.     Design

       Location

       1.       All public sanitary sewer mains shall be installed in dedicated street right of
                way or in dedicated utility easements. Sanitary sewer mains installed in
                Town of Holly Springs maintained streets shall be located in the center of
                travel lanes. Mains located within N.C. Department of Transportation right
                of way shall be placed outside of pavement limits, in accordance with
                NCDOT standards. See Section 2.10 for landscape plantings within Utility
                easements.

       2.       Minimum widths of public sanitary sewer easements shall be:

                Pipe Size (inches)        Pipe Depth (feet)           Easement Width (feet)
                      < 12                      < 20                           20
                      < 12                      > 20                           30
                     12 - 24                    < 20                           30
                     12 - 24                    > 20                           40




2015 ED&CS                                    7-2                             Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                                   Page 99 of 229


                   > 24                    All depths         Executive Director of Utilities
                                                               and Infrastructure Services
                                                                        Specified

             a) Additional width of easement will be required when easement contains
                multiple utilities.

             b) Additional temporary construction easement may be required for any
                sewer not constructed at the time the easement is recorded.

             c) Sewer mains shall be centered within their easements.

             d) All sewer mains that extend as an outfall between residential lots shall
                have a minimum 30ft easement.

      3.     Outfalls shall require accessibility with a maximum cross slope of 6:1.

      4.     Proposed sanitary sewers paralleling a creek shall be designed to a proper
             depth to allow lateral connections such that all creek crossings will be below
             stream bed elevation unless otherwise approved by the Executive Director
             of Utilities and Infrastructure Services. The top of the sewer main shall
             have a minimum of one foot of cover between steel encasement pipe and
             the stream bed. In addition, the following is required:

             a) Sewer lines crossing stream beds will be required to be installed with
                restrained joint pipe inside a steel encasement pipe in accordance with
                the Standard Details section of these standards (Reference TOHS
                HS607).

             b) Sewer lines crossing under storm drainage pipe containing a single pipe
                greater than 42 inches or multiple pipes greater than 36-inches will be
                required to be installed with restrained joint pipe inside a steel casing
                pipe. Installation may be by bore and jack or excavation which will be
                at the discretion of the Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure
                Services. All encasements to be extended a minimum of 10 feet beyond
                the stream bank and/or storm drainage pipe.

      5.     Sanitary sewer mains shall not be installed under any portion of water
             impoundments unless approved by the Executive Director of Utilities and
             Infrastructure Services.

      6.     The following minimum separations must be maintained:

             a) Any private or public water supply source, including WS-1 waters or
                Class I or Class II impounded reservoirs used as a source of drinking
                water – 100 feet;

2015 ED&CS                                7-3                              Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 100 of 229


             b) Any waters classified WS-II, WS-III, B, SA, ORW, HQW or SB (from
                normal high water [or tide elevation] – 50 feet);

             c) Any other stream, lake, or impoundment – 25 feet or as required by State
                law.

             Where the required minimum separations cannot be maintained, ferrous
             sanitary sewer pipe with joints equivalent to water main standards shall be
             used. However, in no instance may sanitary sewer lines be installed less
             than 25 feet from a private well or less than 100 feet from a public water
             supply source (or as required by State law).

      7.     Sanitary sewer lines shall be extended to adjacent upstream property lines,
             in order to serve all upstream properties. These lines shall be sized to serve
             all upstream tributary areas in accordance with the Master Land Use Plan
             or approved developments (whichever results in the larger flow).

      8.     All non-residential swimming pools shall be discharged into the storm
             sewer system after dechlorination.

      Size

      1.     The minimum size of public gravity sanitary sewer mains shall be 8 inches.

      2.     Major interceptors shall be sized in accordance with the “Master
             Wastewater Plan of the Town of Holly Springs.” In areas not included in
             the master plan, new sewer interceptors shall be designed based on the
             proposed land use (in accordance with the Town’s Master Land Use Plan)
             of the contributory area. The following flow factors shall be used:

             Residential, (Single-Family) flow rates:
             Use flow factors as required by the North Carolina Department of
             Environmental Quality (at the time of this specification revision, these
             flow rates are contained in 15A NCAC 02T.0114), or use the Town’s
             approved flow reduction of 255 gpd/unit, whichever is less.

              Residential (Multi-Family) and Non-Residential flow rates:
             Use flow factors as required by the North Carolina Department of
             Environmental Quality (at the time of this specification revision, these
             flow rates are contained in 15A NCAC 02T.0114).

      3.     For existing sewer systems, an additional allowance shall be made to the
             above flow factors where the existing flow exceeds these values and
             immediate remedial measures are not proposed.



2015 ED&CS                                7-4                              Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 101 of 229


      4.     The ratio of peak to average daily flow shall be 2.5.

      5.     Sanitary sewers shall be designed to carry the projected peak flow at no
             more than ½ full. The recommended minimum velocity for sanitary sewer
             lines is 2 fps. The minimum slope for the uppermost reach of a sanitary
             sewer line shall be 1.00%.




2015 ED&CS                                7-5                         Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                       Page 102 of 229


             The minimum grades for public sanitary sewers shall be as follows:

                              Main Size         Minimum Slope
                              (inches)          (feet/100 feet)
                                  8                   0.40
                                 12                   0.22
                                 16                   0.14
                                 18                   0.12
                                 21                   0.10
                                 24                   0.08
                                 30                   0.06

      6.     The maximum grade for sanitary sewers is 10%. The maximum velocity in
             sanitary sewers is 15 feet per second. These limits may be exceeded with
             the approval of the Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure
             Services and with the incorporation of the following provisions:

             a) All sewers of greater than 10% slope shall be ductile iron pipe;

             b) High velocity manholes, in accordance with the Standard Details
                Section of these Standards shall be used on all sewers with a slope
                greater than 10%;

             c) Concrete anchors shall be installed on all sewers of greater than 10%
                slope at the following spacings:

                i) Not over 36 feet center to center on grades from 10% to 25%;
                ii) Not over 24 feet center to center on grades from 25% to 40%;
                iii) Not over 16 feet center to center on grades exceeding 40%.

      7.     Sewer extensions should be designed for projected flows even when the
             diameter of the receiving sewer is less than the diameter of the proposed
             extension.

      8.     Pipe diameter changes shall occur in a manhole with the invert of the larger
             pipe lowered sufficiently to maintain the same energy gradient. An
             approximate method of securing these results is to place the 0.8 depth point
             of both sewers at the same elevation.

      9.     All residential subdivision lots shall be served by public gravity sanitary
             sewer unless otherwise approved by the Executive Director of Utilities and
             Infrastructure Services. If a pump is approved, it shall be privately
             maintained, must pump into a gravity service connection placed on the lot,
             and must have a note on the construction plans and recorded plat indicating
             a private pump may be required to serve the lot with sanitary sewer service.
             In instances where private pump stations are approved, the gravity service

2015 ED&CS                                7-6                            Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                          Page 103 of 229


             that received the force main shall be required to extend into private property
             so that the required private force main vent is located a minimum of 20 feet
             from public right of way.

      10.    Downstream receiving sewer infrastructure shall be evaluated to confirm
             adequate capacity by the design engineer for each project. In addition, a
             sewer study may be required to accompany plans submitted to the Town for
             consideration of impacts to downstream sewer infrastructure. Developer
             shall be required to upgrade insufficient infrastructure.

      Installation

      1.     Sanitary sewer mains shall be deep enough to serve adjoining and upstream
             properties and allow for sufficient slope in lateral lines. All sanitary sewer
             mains shall have the following minimum of 4.5 feet of cover and be
             measured as follows:

             a) 4.5 feet from the top of pipe to finished subgrade when under a roadway;

             b) 4.5 feet from top of pipe to existing edge of pavement elevation when
                adjacent to a roadway which may be widened in the future;

             c) 4.5 feet from top of pipe to finished grade in all other areas.

             The above requirements may be waived at the direction of the Executive
             Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services, in which case ductile iron
             pipe shall be installed.

      2.     The construction of all sanitary sewer lines which will be maintained by the
             Town must be performed by a contractor licensed in North Carolina.

      3.     Sewer mains from 14 to 20 feet deep shall require special bedding in
             accordance with the Standard Details Section of these Standards.

      4.     Sewers over 20 feet deep shall require ductile iron for the entire run between
             manholes and shall be 401 protectant lined.
      5.     Pipe trench excavation and backfilling shall be performed in accordance
             with Section 5.00 of these Standards.

      6.     Transitions of pipe material shall occur only at manholes.

      7.     Sewer mains shall be laid at least 10 feet laterally measured edge to edge
             from existing or proposed water mains unless it is determined that local
             conditions or barriers prevent a 10-foot lateral separation in which case:




2015 ED&CS                                 7-7                             Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 104 of 229


             a) The water main is laid in a separate trench, with the elevation of the
                bottom of the water main at least 18 inches above the top of the sewer;

             b) The water main is laid in the same trench as the sewer with the water
                main located at one side on a bench of undisturbed earth, and with the
                elevation of the bottom of the water main at least 18 inches above the
                top of the sewer.

      8.     Where sanitary sewers cross NCDOT roadways or major Town roads, as
             determined by the engineer, pipe encasement shall be required.

      9.     Where sanitary sewers cross beneath water mains with a vertical separation
             of 18 inches or less or where water mains cross under sewer mains, the
             entire leg of sewer line shall be ductile iron pipe. The water line pipe shall
             be centered at the point of crossing and shall cross sanitary sewer lines at
             an approximate 90º angle.

      10.    Where sanitary and storm sewers cross with a vertical separation of less
             than 24 inches the entire leg of sanitary sewer shall be of ductile iron pipe.
             There shall be a minimum 5-foot horizontal separation between sanitary
             sewer and storm sewer.

      11.    For sanitary sewer and reclaimed separation, see Section 11.01.

      12.    There shall be a minimum 5-foot horizontal separation between parallel
             gravity and/or force mains.

      13.    Sewer line easements shall be completely cleared of all vegetation, graded
             smooth with minimum cross slope of 6:1, free from rocks, boulders, roots,
             stumps, and other debris, free from ponded water, and seeded and mulched
             upon the completion of construction.

      14.    The first new downstream manhole(s) of any sanitary sewer line extension
             under construction shall be plugged on the outlet side with a masonry wall
             or a wing nut plug (to be determined and inspected by the Development
             Inspector); secured with a stainless steel cable with identification plate of
             contractor’s name; and secured with stainless steel cable to prevent the
             passage of groundwater, runoff and sediment into the existing sanitary
             sewer system. All water upstream of the plug shall be pumped out of the
             sanitary sewer line and all sediment and solids shall be removed and
             properly disposed of by the Contractor prior to removal. The plug shall not
             be removed until the line has been inspected by the Development Inspector
             to ensure that all possible points of inflow or infiltration have been secured.
             Failure to meet this requirement will result in a $1,000 per day fine. If the
             plug blows out and causes equipment or material damage or spills
             downstream, the Contractor shall be responsible for resulting fines and costs

2015 ED&CS                                 7-8                             Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 105 of 229


             of repairs. Authorization to remove the plug shall be required by
             Development Inspector. If the Contractor fails to obtain necessary
             approvals and removes the plug before the system is activated, the
             Contractor shall be responsible for resulting State and Town fines and
             damages resulting.

      15.    Construction Involving Existing Sewer Mains:

             a) The existing sewer main must remain active and protected during all
                phases of construction. The contractor must provide a plan for the
                structural protection of the existing sewer main.

             b) A proposed construction sequence plan, service re-connection plan, and
                bypass pumping plan must be submitted to the Town for any demolition
                of any portion of existing sewer main. The plan must be reviewed and
                approved by the Executive Director of Utilities & Infrastructure.


      Manholes

      1.     All manhole cone sections shall be the eccentric type.

      2.     Manholes shall be spaced at a maximum distance of 425 feet apart
             regardless of size unless documentation is provided showing capability to
             perform routine maintenance on sewer at distances greater than 425' apart.

      3.     Manholes for sewers under 21 inches in diameter shall be a minimum of 4
             feet in diameter. Manholes for sewers 21 inches in diameter or greater shall
             be 5 feet in diameter. Manholes requiring inside drops shall be a minimum
             of 5 feet in diameter. When 2 or more inside drops occur at one manhole,
             a minimum 6-foot diameter manhole shall be used.

      4.     All manholes that are over 20 feet deep shall be 5 feet in diameter.

      5.     Manholes shall be installed at each deflection of line and/or grade. The flow
             channel through manholes should be smooth and shall conform to the shape
             of the entering/exiting sewer line. A standard 0.20-foot drop shall be
             provided at each manhole. Inverts “in” and “out” shall be as designated on
             the approved plans. Sewers shall be designed to minimize free drops in
             manholes.

             Either precast or brick and mortar inverts may be used conforming to these
             Standards. The invert shall be smooth and uniform in shape along the entire
             length.

      6.     Inside drops shall be used when free drops exceed 12 inches. For inside
             drop manholes, the entire upstream leg of sewer must be ductile iron. For

2015 ED&CS                                7-9                             Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                           Page 106 of 229


             inside drop manholes, see the Standard Details Section of these Standards.
             Outside drops shall not be permitted except when necessary to connect to
             existing manholes.

      7.     Manholes not located in roadways shall have a top elevation a minimum of
             12 inches above finished grade. Manholes located along outfalls shall have
             a top elevation a minimum of 24 inches above finished grade or 100 year
             flood plain, or 12 inches above 500 year flood plain, whichever is higher.
             Alternatively, specify watertight covers and vents that extend at least 24
             inches above the 100-year flood elevation, if approved by the Executive
             Director of Utilities & Infrastructure

      8.     Watertight manhole rings and covers shall only be allowed upon approval
             by the Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services. Manholes
             with watertight tops shall be vented in accordance with the Standard Details
             Section of these Standards.

      9.     Manholes located within flood plain areas, on outfalls, and within any areas
             of high groundwater shall be waterproofed by wrapping all joints with a
             minimum 8-inch width band of butyl joint wrap. Waterproofing shall be
             installed by mopping asphalt over the joint area, then wrapping butyl joint
             wrap around the joints, and finally mopping the wrap with another coat of
             asphalt. The total asphalt coat thickness shall be a minimum of 20 mils.

      10.    Manholes for sewers 12 inches and above shall be coated with an epoxy
             coating system such as Cor-Cote SC as manufactured by Sherwin-Williams,
             Raven 405 as manufactured by Raven Lining Systems, Sewer Kote
             Duramer 1030 or an approved equivalent.

      11.    Manholes with an exterior height of four feet or greater from finished grade
             shall have exterior steps.

      12.    Manholes on outfalls shall have frames and rotating covers as detailed in
             HS722 with vent holes.

      13.    All sanitary sewer manholes in areas of special concern shall be required to
             be vacuum tested in accordance with ASTMC-1244.

      14.    Where manholes are located in streets inside the Triassic Basin (HS356) it
             will be required to have suitable off-site structural material or stone to
             backfill around excavation of manholes up to subgrade. Also see Section
             3.02J of these standards.

C.    Materials




2015 ED&CS                               7-10                            Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                          Page 107 of 229


      The Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services will maintain a list
      of approved manufacturers for all sanitary sewer collection system products. New
      manufacturers must submit requests for approval to the Executive Director of
      Utilities and Infrastructure Services. Additional information such as catalogs, lists
      of installations in the area or material samples may be required. A written response
      will be mailed to the applicant accepting or rejecting the product within 90 days of
      the receipt of all necessary information.

      Each length of sanitary sewer pipe installed shall have plainly and permanently
      marked thereon the following information:

      1.     Pipe class or strength designation;

      2.     Manufacturer’s name or trademark;

      3.     Nominal pipe size.

      A.B.S. Composite (Truss) Pipe

      A.B.S. composite pipe shall meet the requirements of ASTM D 2680. Pipe joints
      shall be chemically welded or gasket joints in accordance with ASTM D 3212. See
      Section 7.01-C for additional installation requirements. See the Standard Drawing
      Details Section of these Standards for bedding requirements.

      Ductile Iron Pipe

      Ductile iron pipe for gravity sewer use shall be designed and manufactured in
      accordance with AWWA C150 and C151 for a laying condition Type 2 and a
      working pressure as follows:

                                   3 – 12 inches         350 psi
                                  14 – 20 inches         250 psi
                                     24 inches           200 psi
                                  30 – 54 inches         150 psi

      Pipe joints shall be of the push-on type as per AWWA C1211. Pipe lining shall be
      cement lined. All ductile sewer lines 12” and above shall be 401 protectant lined

      Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Pipe

      PVC pipe shall be made of PVC plastic having a cell classification of 12454-B,
      12454-C or 13364-B (with minimum tensile modulus of 500,000 psi) as defined in
      Specification D1784. PVC pipe shall have integral wall bell and spigot joints for
      the conveyance of domestic sewage. Fittings shall be made of PVC plastic having
      a cell classification of 12454-B, 12454-C or 13343-C as defined in Specification
      D1784. Fittings must be manufactured by pipe supplier or approved equal, and

2015 ED&CS                                7-11                             Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 108 of 229


      have bell and/or spigot configurations compatible with that of the pipe. Compounds
      with superior properties are also acceptable.

      All pipe less than 18 inches in diameter shall have a maximum Standard Dimension
      Ratio (SDR) of 35. Where laying conditions so warrant, and in accordance with
      manufacturer’s recommendations, lower SDR values (stronger pipe) may be
      required.

      PVC pipe 18 inches in diameter and larger must be SDR-35 as defined in ASTM
      679. Pipe strength shall be equal to or exceed that required for pipe less than 18” in
      size. Pipe shall have special bedding as per Detail HS 703.

      Installation shall consist of Class I bedding material (as defined in Section 7.01 C)
      placed 4 inches below the pipe barrel and continuing to 4 inches above the pipe
      barrel, as per ASTM D2321. In addition, the installation of PVC pipe shall satisfy
      the requirements of Section 7.01-C below. See the Standard Details Section of
      these Standards for bidding requirements.

      PVC Composite (Truss) Pipe

      PVC thermoplastic material shall be a rigid PVC plastic conforming to ASTM D-
      1784 for a minimum cell class of 12454-B. The Portland Cement Perlite concrete
      or other inert filler material shall be as described in Section 6.3 of ASTM D-2680.

      Joints shall be chemical welded or gasketed in accordance with ASTM D3212.
      Solvent cement for joining PVC to PVC shall comply with ASTM D-2564. Pipe
      test specimens shall meet all the manufacturing requirements established in ASTM
      D-2680.

      All recommendations of the manufacturer shall be followed in shipping, handling,
      laying, joining and backfilling of the pipe, and the pipe shall be installed in full and
      complete compliance with Recommended Practice D2321. In addition, the
      installation of PVC composite pipe shall satisfy the requirements of Section 7.01-
      C below. See the Standard Details Section of these Standards for bedding
      requirements.

      Steel Encasement for water/sewer pipes are required for the following Street
      Classifications to avoid traffic disruption in the future:

         •   Controlled Access Highway

      For carrier pipes that employ cathodic protection anticorrosion systems, the carrier
      and casing pipes shall be effectively insulated from one another. Carrier and casing
      shall be cathodically protected as a unit.
      See Section 5.03 Boring and Jacking for more casing pipe size requirements.



2015 ED&CS                                 7-12                              Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 109 of 229


D.    Additional Requirements for Flexible and Semi-Rigid Sanitary Sewer Pipe

      Installation of flexible and semi-rigid sanitary sewer pipe shall satisfy the
      requirements of the manufacturer and/or the following, whichever is more
      stringent:

      1.     Installation shall follow the recommendations of ASTM D-2321
             “Underground Installation of Flexible Thermoplastic Sewer Pipe.” For
             flexible and semi-rigid pipes, bedding and embedment material shall be
             Class I. In any area where the pipe will be installed below existing or future
             ground water levels or where the trench could be subject to inundation,
             additional Class I material shall be used for bedding. Refer to the Standard
             Details Section of these Standards for embedment requirements.

      2.     The manufacturer’s specifications or otherwise approved method shall be
             used in determining the stiffness class of the pipe to be installed so as to
             attain the required deflection control. The class of the pipe must be
             approved by the Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services
             prior to installation.

      3.     The maximum allowable deflection after installation shall be less than 5%
             for flexible pipe and 3% for semi-rigid pipe. The mandrel (go/no-go)
             deflection test must be performed on each line prior to acceptance, and no
             less than 30 days after installation. The Contractor shall supply the mandrel
             used for this performance test. The mandrel device shall be cylindrical in
             shape having 9 possible contact points with the pipe. The mandrel’s length
             and diameter (ID of proving ring) shall equal the dimensions in the
             following table, and shall be subject to the Construction Inspector’s
             approval. A mandrel test on truss pipe shall only be required if the
             Construction Inspector finds a problem during the visual inspection.




2015 ED&CS                                7-13                             Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 110 of 229


             For polyethylene pipe, the following shall apply:

                   Nominal Diameter        Mandrel Length          Mandrel Diameter
                       (inches)                (inches)                (inches)
                          18                12 (minimum)                 16.53
                          21                                            19.30
                          24                                            22.08
                          27                                            24.84
                          30                                            27.62
                          33                                            30.38
                          36                                            33.15
                          42                                            38.68
                          48                                            44.21
                          54                                            49.74
                          60                                            55.27

             For other flexible pipes the following shall apply:

                   Nominal Diameter        Mandrel Length          Mandrel Diameter
                       (inches)               (inches)                 (inches)
                           6                      6                       5.65
                           8                      8                       7.40
                          10                     10                       9.31
                          12                     10                      11.22
                          15                     12                      14.09

             For semi-rigid (truss) pipes the following shall apply:

                   Nominal Diameter        Mandrel Length          Mandrel Diameter
                       (inches)               (inches)                 (inches)
                           8                      8                       7.52
                          10                     10                       9.46
                          12                     10                      11.40
                          15                     12                      14.31

      4.     For PVC and Polyethylene pipe, the pipe shall be produced with bell and
             spigot end construction. Joining will be accomplished by rubber gasket in
             accordance with manufacturer’s recommendation, unless otherwise
             directed or approved by the Executive Director of Utilities and
             Infrastructure Services. Flexible watertight elastomeric seals in accordance
             with ASTM D3212-81, may also be used. Each pipe length shall be clearly
             marked with information including pipe size, profile number, and class
             number.



2015 ED&CS                               7-14                             Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                           Page 111 of 229


      5.     Minimum trench width shall be one pipe diameter plus 9 inches on each
             side of the pipe.

      6.     Special Bedding (6-inch minimum) and embedment materials shall be per
             ASTM D2321. Embedment materials shall be installed from trench wall to
             trench wall and from 6” below the invert to a minimum of 6 inches above
             the crown of the pipe, for all pipe 14-20 feet deep.

      7.     The bedding and embedment material shall be compacted to a minimum of
             90% Standard Proctor density for Class I materials.

      8.     If hydraulic jack shoring is utilized for trench walls where shoring is used,
             it shall be kept to the area just above the top of the pipe. This will ensure
             the embedment materials and pipe will not be disturbed when removal is
             made.

      9.     Bedding and embedment material classifications shall be defined as
             follows:

             Class I - Angular, (¼ to 1½ inch) graded stone, including a number of fill
             materials that have regional significance such as coral, slag, cinders,
             crushed stone, crushed gravel, and crushed shells.

             Class II - Coarse sands and gravels with maximum particle size of 1½ inch,
             including variously graded sands and gravels containing small percentages
             of fines, generally granular and non-cohesive, either wet or dry. Soil types
             GW, GP, SW and SP are included in this class.

             Class III - Fine sand and clayey gravels, including fine sands, sand-clay
             mixtures, and gravel-clay mixtures. Soil types GM, GC, SM, and SC are
             included in this class.

             Class IV - Silt, silty clays, and clays, including inorganic clays and silts of
             medium to high plasticity and liquid limits. Soil types MH, ML, CH and
             CL are included in this class. These materials are not recommended for
             embedment.




2015 ED&CS                                7-15                             Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 112 of 229


7.02   MOVED to NEW Section 13




7.03   MANHOLES

A.     Materials

       Manholes shall be precast concrete. No hoop steel base or riser sections are
       allowed. All manholes shall have eccentric cone sections.

       Precast concrete manholes shall meet ASTM C478 as to design and manufacturer.
       The standard joint shall be sealed with a plastic cement putty meeting Federal
       Specification SS-S-00210, such as Ram-Nek or a butyl rubber sealant. All lift holes
       must be plugged with non-shrinking grout after installation. For precast concrete
       manholes, see the Standard Details Section of these Standards.

       Manhole frames and covers (including rotating covers) shall be cast in ductile
       iron, conforming to ASTM A-48 Class 30, with “Sanitary Sewer” stamped on the
       cover and two 1-inch perforated holes in roadways and four 1-inch perforated holes
       in outfalls unless covers required to be watertight. Castings shall be machined to
       give even and continuous bearing on the full length of the frame. Castings shall be
       Grey Iron ASTM 48, CL 35B made in the U.S.A. Manhole frames shall be bolted
       to the manhole as per the Standard Details Section of these Standards. All manhole
       rings in roadways shall be encased in a concrete collar, 18 inches by 12 inches, of
       3,000 psi concrete beneath the asphalt, with the cover flush with the top of
       pavement and rated for an AASHTO loading Class HS-20, as shown in the Standard
       Details Section of these Standards.

       Watertight manhole frames and covers shall have neoprene gasket, machine
       bearing surfaces. Bolts shall be standard hexagonal-head, countersunk such that
       when fully tightened bolt head is flush with the top of the cover. Castings shall be
       Gray Iron ASTM 48, CL 35B, made in the U.S.A., free of porosity and blow holes.
       Watertight manhole frames and covers shall only be permitted in lieu of elevating
       the manhole tops above the 100 and/or 500-year flood plain with specific approval
       by the Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services. Watertight
       manholes shall require venting per the Standard Details section of these standards.

       Manhole steps shall be furnished with the precast sections. Steps shall be of
       polypropylene material reinforced with a half-inch diameter grade 60 reinforcing
       steel rod. Manhole steps shall be designed for a vertical load of 400 pounds and a
       horizontal pull out load of 1,000 pounds. Steps shall be set 16” on center. Holes
       for the installation of manhole steps shall not project through the manhole wall.
       There shall be a minimum of 1-inch wall thickness from the deepest penetration of
       the step installation hole and the outside wall. Steps shall be at least 10” clear width

2015 ED&CS                                  7-16                              Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                               Page 113 of 229


       and shall project at least 4” from the wall into which it is embedded. Steps shall
       not be located over the influent or effluent pipes and shall be installed along a
       vertical manhole wall from the shelf to the top of cone.

       All manholes shall have 6-inch, 3,000 psi concrete bottoms resting on a minimum
       of 6 inches of #57 stone. Sewer mains shall enter and exit radially through the
       manhole. Inverts shall be constructed with a width and height equal to half that of
       the effluent pipe and shall be so brushed and troweled that a minimum energy loss
       occurs in the manhole.

       At each inlet and outlet of line 8 inches or greater, wastewater lines are to be
       connected to the manholes by means of compression connectors (flexible sleeves)
       cast into the manhole section. Flexible connectors are to be manufactured of high-
       quality rubber or synthetic rubber and all strap clamps or draw bolts are to be
       manufactured from stainless steel.


7.04   SERVICE CONNECTIONS

A.     Materials

       Cast iron soil pipe shall be service weight hub and spigot meeting Federal
       Specifications WW-401. The joints shall be rubber type elastomeric as per ASTM
       C425.

       PVC pipe shall be schedule 40 or greater supplied in 18 foot lengths. The pipe
       may be joined by elastomeric gaskets.

       Ductile iron pipe shall be used for sanitary sewer services with less than 3 feet of
       cover or in excess of 20 feet of cover.

       Services for new lines shall use in-line wyes of like material unless otherwise
       approved by the Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services.

       Service saddles for existing PVC or ABS lines shall be of the same material as
       the main, solvent welded and fastened with double stainless steel bands as shown
       on the Standard Details Section of these Standards.

       Service saddles for existing cast iron soil pipe services may be “ROMAC C”
       sewer saddles consisting of a virgin SBR gasket compounded for sewer service, a
       ductile iron saddle casting, a 304 stainless steel adjustable strap for fastening the
       gasket and the saddle casting to the sewer main and a 304 stainless steel adjustable
       circle clamp for securing the service line into the SBR gasket.




2015 ED&CS                                 7-17                             Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 114 of 229


B.    Installation

      Individually owned structures shall require individual sewer taps to public sewer.
      All service connections to existing or new sanitary sewer mains shall be made by a
      licensed Contractor in the State of North Carolina, and in accordance with these
      Standards.

      Service taps into mains shall be made on the top quarter of the main with the wye
      angled with the direction of flow in the main. All services installed on new lines
      shall be inline wyes unless otherwise approved by the Executive Director of
      Utilities and Infrastructure Services.

      All service lines shall require Class I bedding from 6 inches below service line to 6
      inches above the service line. All service lines shall have a minimum of 8 inches
      separation from other utilities. Service lines greater than 20 feet or less than 3 feet
      in depth must be ductile iron.

      Service connections to the main lines shall be perpendicular to the main line to the
      edge of the right of way or easement line. Services shall have a minimum slope of
      1.0 feet per 100 feet. Cleanouts shall be required on all sewer services at a
      maximum spacing of 75 feet on 4-inch services and 100 feet on 6-inch services. A
      cleanout shall be placed on all service lines at the right of way line or at the edge
      of the easement. All cleanouts shall extend a minimum of 6 inches above finished
      grade or meet the optional installation requirements in accordance with the
      Standard Details Section of these Standards. Sewer cleanouts located in paved
      areas must have traffic load bearing mini-manhole.

      All 6-inch service lines shall tie directly into a manhole.

      All service lines which are connected into manholes shall be installed less than 2½
      feet above the invert or shall be installed with a standard drop as shown on the
      Standard Details Section of these Standards. Service lines shall not be installed
      through manhole cone sections or manhole joints. The use of service saddles will
      only be permitted for connection to existing sewer lines.

      Service connections made using a “ROMAC C” sewer saddle shall be made only
      when the service line is cast iron soil pipe and only when the sewer main is 8, 10,
      or 12-inch diameter concrete, ductile iron, or PVC sewer pipe. This service
      connection shall not be used when the sewer main material is truss sewer pipe.

      The opening in the sewer main for the “ROMAC C” sewer saddle shall be cut with
      a hydraulically driven or a pneumatically driven circular tapping saw of the same
      nominal diameter as the sewer service line.




2015 ED&CS                                 7-18                             Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 115 of 229


C.     Grease Interceptor

       All grease traps/interceptors shall be designed according to minimum standards of
       the North Carolina Plumbing Code and any requests of the Town. The Town
       prohibits joint use of a tap or interceptor between establishments. All cooking
       establishments shall have grease interceptors installed and maintained at the User’s
       expense. Non-cooking establishments or other commercial, institutional and/or
       industrial establishments may also be required to install a grease-handling device(s)
       when deemed necessary by the Town.

       The discharge from the following fixtures shall be connected to the grease
       interceptor: all sinks, dishwashers, floor drains in food preparation and storage
       areas, and any other fixtures through which grease may be discharged. See Detail
       HS725.


7.05   TESTING AND INSPECTION

       All materials used must be inspected by the Construction Inspector before they shall
       be allowed to be installed. Materials rejected by the Construction Inspector shall
       be immediately removed from the job site.

       The Contractor shall furnish all materials, labor, and equipment, and shall pay for
       the water used to perform all testing and inspection to the satisfaction of the
       Construction Inspector. The Contractor shall obtain a meter from the Town of
       Holly Springs for use.

       Sanitary sewer lines shall be free and clean from obstructions and shall be visually
       inspected from every manhole to ensure all lines exhibit a fully circular pattern.
       Lines which do not exhibit a true line and grade or have structural defects shall be
       corrected. Sanitary sewer service connections shall be visually inspected prior to
       backfilling.

       Prior to the placement of any roadway structure, the Contractor shall clean and
       CCTV all newly installed sewer mains. A 3rd Party CCTV contractor shall televise
       the sewer main and all lateral connections installed from the upstream to the
       downstream manhole with no reverse setups or cutaways. This shall be done at the
       Developers expense. The contractor shall clean the sewer mains ahead of the video
       inspection with a high velocity water jet. The video inspection shall take place
       within two hours of the cleaning operation as witnessed by a Town of Holly Springs
       Development Inspector. All construction debris shall be collected in the down
       stream manhole and shall not be released into the sewer system. No other work
       shall be performed on the sewer lines after cleaning and prior to the video
       inspection. The contractor may not perform CCTV inspections on any utilities that
       they have installed. The contractor shall provide a DVD or Flash Drive, submitted
       to the inspector for review.

2015 ED&CS                                 7-19                             Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 116 of 229


      See Section 7.01 C for additional testing requirements for flexible and semi-rigid
      pipe.

      Low-pressure air testing shall be performed after all laterals or stubs are installed
      on the line and after the main has been backfilled to finished grade. Plugs shall be
      installed at each manhole to seal off the section of line to be tested. The line will
      be pressurized with a single hose and monitored by a separate hose connection from
      the plug. Air shall be slowly introduced into the sealed line until the internal air
      pressure reaches 4.0 psig. The air pressure shall then be allowed to stabilize for a
      minimum of 2 minutes to no less than 3.5 psig (plus groundwater pressure, if any).
      When the pressure reaches 3.5 psig, the time required for the pressure to drop 1.0
      psi shall be observed and recorded. The line shall be termed “acceptable” if the
      pressure does not drop more than 1.0 psi in the time prescribed for the test in the
      following table:


                             STANDARD AIR TEST TABLE
           Specification time (min:sec) required for pressure drop from 3½ to 2½ psig
                               when testing one pipe diameter only
       Length
       of Pipe                            Pipe Diameter (inches)
        (feet)
                    4        6       8      10       12      15       18     21      24
          25      0:04     0:10    0:18    0:28     0:40    1:02     1:29   2:01    2:38
          50      0:09     0:20    0:35    0:55     1:19    2:04     2:58   4:03    5:17
          75      0:13     0:30    0:53    1:23     1:59    3:06     4:27   6:04    7:55
         100      0:18     0:40    1:10    1:50     2:38    4:08     5:56   8:05 10:34
         125      0:22     0:50    1:28    2:18     3:18    5:09     7:26   9:55 11:20
         150      0:26     0:59    1:46    2:45     3:58    6:11     8:30
         175      0:31     1:09    2:03    3:13     4:37    7:05
         200      0:35     1:19    2:21    3:40     5:17                           12:06
         225      0:40     1:29    2:38    4:08     5:40                   10:25 13:36
         250      0:44     1:39    2:56    4:35                      8:31 11:35 15:07
         275      0:48     1:49    3:14    4:43                      9:21 12:44 16:38
         300      0:53     1:59    3:31                             10:12 13:53 18:09
         350      1:02     2:19    3:47                     8:16 11:54 16:12 21:10
         400      1:10     2:38                     6:03    9:27 13:36 18:31 24:12
         450      1:19     2:50                     6:48 10:38 15:19 20:50 27:13
         500      1:28                     5:14     7:34 11:49 17:01 23:09 30:14

    If the section of line tested fails to meet these requirements, the source of leakage shall
    be determined and repaired. The section of line shall then be retested.


2015 ED&CS                                 7-20                             Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 117 of 229


       The Construction Inspector may require that an infiltration test be performed.
       Infiltration shall not exceed 100 GPD per inch per mile.

       At the discretion of the Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure Services,
       sanitary sewer manholes in areas of special concern may be required to be vacuum
       tested in accordance with ASTMC-1244 as shown.


                                                      C 1244 – 05a e1
   Table 1 Minimum Test Times for Various Manhole Diameters     Table 1 Minimum Test Times for Various Manhole Diameters (30-120
                    (30-120 in.) in Seconds                                        in.) in Seconds (continued)
                         Diameter, in.                                                     Diameter, in.
 Depth                                                          Depth (ft)
 (ft)
        30    33   36    42      48    54   60    66     72            78     84      90      96       102   108    114      120
                       Time, in seconds                                                  Time, in seconds
 <4    6     33   7      9      10     12   13   15    16       <4    18     19      21     23        24     25    27       29
 6     9     10   11     13     15     18   20   22    25       6     26     29      31     34        36     38    41       43
 8     11    12   14     17     20     23   26   29    33       8     35     38      41     45        48     51    54       57
 10    14    15   18     21     25     29   33   36    41       10    44     48      52     56        60     63    67       71
 12    17    18   21     25     30     35   39   43    49       12    53     57      62     67        71     76    81       85
 14    20    21   25     30     35     41   46   51    57       14    62     67      72     78        83     89    94       100
 16    22    24   29     34     40     46   52   58    67       16    70     76      83     89        95     101   108      114
 18    25    27   32     38     45     52   59   65    73       18    79     86      93     100       107    114   121      128
 20    28    30   35     42     50     53   65   72    81       20    88     95      103    111       119    126   135      142
 22    31    33   39     46     55     64   72   79    89       22    97     105     114    122       131    139   148      156
 24    33    36   42     51     59     64   78   87    97       24    106    114     124    133       143    152   161      170
 26    36    39   46     55     64     75   85   94    105      26    114    124     134    144       155    164   175      185
 28    39    42   49     59     69     81   91   101 113        28    123    133     145    155       167    177   188      199
 30    42    45   53     63     74     87   98   108 121        30    132    143     155    166       178    189   202      213




7.06     REPAIRS, MODIFICATIONS, AND ABANDONMENT

         A. Sewer Main Repair

         The repair of damaged sanitary sewer lines shall be as follows:

         1.        PVC Pipe - Replace damaged section with PVC pipe. Install PVC couplings
                   or ductile sleeves and mechanical bolt at each end (encased in concrete).

         2.        ABS/PVC Truss Pipe - Replace damaged section with D.I.P. Install PVC
                   couplings or ductile sleeves and mechanical bolt at each end (encased in
                   concrete).

         B. Installation
              1. All repairs to damaged sanitary sewer lines shall be backfilled with ABC
                 stone (crusher run) to a density of 95% Standard Proctor.
              2. All repairs to damaged sanitary sewer lines shall be bedded with 6-inches
                 of washed stone and compacted to a minimum of 95% Standard Proctor
                 density before installing the new joint of ductile iron or PVC pipe.

2015 ED&CS                                               7-21                                         Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                                                          Page 118 of 229


   C. Abandonment of Existing Sewer Mains
         1. A detailed pumping and emergency plan shall be required for any sewer
            line draining event.
         2. All sanitary sewer mains and sewer force mains, active, inactive, or
            abandoned shall begin to be drained. All effluent shall be pumped to a
            downstream manhole (when available) or other containment tank utilizing
            continuous piping.
         3. Existing sewer mains and casings located outside of road sections shall be
            removed, unless otherwise directed by the Executive Director of Utilities
            and Infrastructure. All materials and labor shall be provided by the
            contractor.
         4. Existing sewer mains and casings located within a road section shall be
            grout filled and abandoned in place.
         5. In other locations, grout filling and abandonment in place may be allowed
            with prior approval from the Executive Director of Utilities and
            Infrastructure.
         6. Sewer service laterals shall be abandoned by removing and replacing the
            saddle with a 360-degree stainless steel sleeve. At in-line wyes the service
            lateral shall be cut within 12 inches of the wye and a mechanical cap
            installed on DIP/cast services or glued to PVC services and the abandoned
            wye encased with 1 cubic foot of concrete.

7.07 MOVED to NEW Section 13


                             END OF SECTION 7.00




2015 ED&CS                               7-22                            Supp #10 June 2024



                                                                                          Page 119 of 229


                              SECTION 13.00
                 WASTEWATER PUMP SYSTEMS AND FORCE MAINS

                                      SUB-INDEX

      13.01 PUMP STATION GENERAL

             A. General
             B. Pre-Design Requirements
             C. Design Requirements
             D. Construction Phase Requirements
             E. Post Construction Requirements

      13.02 PUMP STATION SITE AND STRUCTURES

             A. General
             B. Site Work
             C. Structures
             D. Piping and Valves
             E. Electrical
             F. Pump Station Demolition and Abandonment

      13.03 PUMP STATION EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES

             A. Pumps
             B. Pump Control Systems
             C. SCADA
             D. Grinders
             E. Odor Control
             F. Jib Crane/Hoisting Equipment
             G. Generators
             H. Automatic Transfer Switches (ATS)

      13.04 PUMP STATION TESTING AND TRAINING

             A. Testing
             B. Operator Training

      13.05 WASTEWATER FORCE MAINS

             A. General
             B. Design
             C. Materials
             D. Installation
             E. Valves and Appurtenances

2021 ED&CS                                 13-1            Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                        Page 120 of 229


13.06 FORCE MAINS INSPECTIONS AND TESTING

A. Inspections
B. Testing

2021 ED&CS 13-2 Supp# 10 June 2024

Page 121 of 229


13.01 PUMP STATION GENERAL

   A. GENERAL

      1. All aspects of pump station design shall, at a minimum, meet the requirements of the
         latest version of the:

         a) North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ) Minimum Design
            Criteria for the (Fast-Track) Permitting of Pump Stations and Force Mains
            (Minimum Design Criteria),

         b) Alternative Design Criteria for Minimum Separation for Sewer Systems to
            Wetlands,

         c) North Carolina Administrative Code Title 15A Chapter 02 Subchapter T Waste Not
            Discharged to Surface Waters (15A NCAC 02T),

         d) North Carolina (NC) Building Code,

         e) Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations, and

         f) Town of Holly Springs (Town) Engineering Design & Construction Standards
            (Standards).

      Town Standards identify minimum equipment and construction requirements for a
      wastewater pump station to be owned and operated by the Town. This section does not
      address every aspect of pump station design; it is the North Carolina Professional
      Engineer’s (NCPE’s) responsibility to supplement these requirements as necessary to
      produce a complete set of plans and specifications. Requirements in the Town Standards
      that are more restrictive or exceed the requirements of the Minimum Design Criteria are
      required by the Town.

      2. Gravity sewer should always be preferred over pump station and force main
         construction. A request for a pump station in lieu of gravity sewer service requires
         approval from the Executive Director of Utilities & Infrastructure (Director).

      3. The Town reserves the right to disallow pump stations that are not in alignment with
         the Town’s Comprehensive Plan, other adopted long-range plans, or other instances
         where it is not efficient or desirable to have a pump station.

      4. If a pump station is allowed, the following criteria must be met:

         a) The design and construction of the station will be compliant with all applicable
            federal, state, and local regulations.



2021 ED&CS                                   13-3                            Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                          Page 122 of 229


         b) The design and construction will ensure reliable, continuous, and consistent
            operation, during all operating conditions, such as flooding or loss of utility system
            power.

         c) The station’s design will allow for easy operation and maintenance (O&M) of the
            installed equipment.

         d) The station will provide pumping capacity and configuration to pump all
            wastewater flows tributary to the station and readily accommodate future
            expansion, where required.

         e) The station will avoid septic conditions and excessive release of odors in the pump
            station and collection system.

         f) The station will minimize impacts on the environment and Town.

      5. New development may be required to take upstream/downstream pump stations offline
         or upgrade pump stations per the Town’s Comprehensive Plan, other adopted long-
         range plans, or as determined by the Director.

      6. Pump Stations will not be allowed to discharge to another pump station unless the
         receiving pump station is identified as a regional pump station in the Town’s
         Comprehensive Plan or other adopted long-range plans, or exception granted by the
         Director.

      7. Private pump stations will require an exception from these Standards. A Basis of
         Design Report, signed and sealed by a NCPE, should be submitted for review prior to
         a determination by the Director. Private pump station design is not covered by these
         Standards, and the applicant should look for guidance from other appropriate agencies,
         such as NCDEQ, NC Plumbing Code, etc. Documentation of future private pump
         station maintenance shall be required. Prior to operation, private pump stations shall be
         equipped with a sign indicating owner, responsible party, and 24-hour on call phone
         number.

      8. All wastewater pump stations shall be connected to the Town’s fiber optic network. An
         extension of the fiber optic network may be necessary complete a connection.

   B. PRE-DESIGN

      1. Pre-Design Meeting

         a) The developer and NCPE shall be required to meet with the Director and/or
            representative(s) in a “Pre-Design meeting” to discuss the preliminary design
            report, preliminary site plan, site layout, and other requirements for any proposed
            pump station, before design begins.


2021 ED&CS                                    13-4                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 123 of 229


2021 ED&CS 13-5 Supp# 10 June 2024

Page 124 of 229


      2. Preliminary Design Report

         a) A detailed economic analysis consisting of a minimum 20-year present worth
            evaluation shall be submitted by the NCPE, comparing the extension of gravity
            sewer with construction of a pump station and force main alternative. The analysis
            shall include related improvements to the existing gravity collection system
            required to receive the station’s discharge. The Town will consider economic
            evaluations, service area configuration, O&M costs, the Comprehensive Plan, other
            adopted long-range plans, and external factors before accepting pump station plan
            submittals in lieu of gravity sewer extensions.

         b) A preliminary design report (PDR), signed and sealed by the NCPE, is required
            prior to, or with, the submittal of plans and specifications for pump stations. The
            PDR shall contain, at a minimum, the following criteria:

             1) Total dynamic head (TDH) calculations for all pumping situations.

             2) Pump selection calculations, based on survey information and force main
                diameter and length. System head curves shall be developed for Hazen-
                Williams “C” factors of 100 and 140, combined with pump curves for the
                selected pump. Calculations shall indicate flow rates for one and all pump(s) in
                operation. Pump selection shall be based on a “C” factor of 100, and proposed
                motor sizing shall be based on power required with a “C” factor of 140 and no
                utilization of the motor’s service factor. Motors shall be non-overloading over
                the entire range of operation.

             3) Pump station cycle and pump run times covering high, low, and average flows
                over the entire expected operating period of the pump station. Calculate
                minimum cycle time based on inflow rate equal to one-half of the pumping rate.

             4) Emergency Response time (time between the high water alarm and the first
                system overflow, at average and peak flow).

             5) Pump station flotation/buoyancy design calculations. Submerged soil weight
                on any extended bases should be limited to the soil directly above the extended
                base.

             6) Minimum velocity within the force main, including an analysis of the
                capabilities of the pumps to completely flush any depressed sections of the force
                main in a single pumping cycle.

             7) Preliminary surge/water hammer analysis with estimates of the maximum and
                minimum pressures (including negative pressures) that may occur during pump
                starts and stops. Depending upon the maximum and minimum estimated
                pressures, design flow, TDH, force main velocities, force main length, and force


2021 ED&CS                                   13-6                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 125 of 229


                main profile, the Town may require a detailed computer surge analysis be
                performed by the NCPE.

             8) An evaluation of the receiving sewer system. Evaluate the receiving sewer (at
                the force main discharge and downstream) to determine the capacity of the
                collection system to accept the pumped flow. Identify upgrades required in the
                existing collection system to accommodate the proposed flow.

             9) Odor Control equipment sizing and chemical dosing calculations.

             10) Grinder flow capacity and head loss calculations.

             11) Generator calculations. The generator must be sized adequately to start and
                 operate all connected loads (pumps to be started sequentially and controls
                 specified).

             12) Number of lots/parcels served, off-site drainage area, zoning, average daily
                 flow, and peak daily flow.

      3. Preliminary Site Plan

         a) A preliminary site plan shall be submitted, consisting of the following:

             1) Cover Sheet with index of drawings and vicinity map

             2) Existing Conditions Plan

             3) Site Plan, at minimum, with

                 a). All property lines, fences, gates, generator, etc.

                b). Layout of structures

                 c). Driveway and access dimensions

             4) Turning Template for a WB-50 service vehicle

             5) Grading Plan with existing and proposed contours

             6) Utility Plan with gravity sewer, force main, water, storm drainage piping, and
                fiber optic connection (show pipe size/material and identify the force main
                discharge location)

             7) Landscape Plan with plant lists, planting/staking details, and buffers



2021 ED&CS                                    13-7                             Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 126 of 229


         b) If design changes between PDR approval and Preliminary Stie Plan submittal, a
            revised PDR should be submitted to the Town.

   C. FINAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS

      1. After preliminary design approval, a Final Design Report, detailing final pump station
         design and signed and sealed by the NCPE, is required. All aspects of pump station
         design shall be submitted for review and approval to the Town. Pump station review
         may be more extensive than the typical development site plan process. Materials
         necessary for review and requiring approval include, but are not limited to, complete
         plans, specifications, and Final Design Reports.

      2. Wastewater flow rates for the entire natural drainage basin upstream of the anticipated
         pump station location must be accounted for, based upon the Town’s proposed land use
         plan or approved developments, whichever flow is greater.

      3. The Town may consider phased construction, if the peak flow rate tributary to the pump
         station exceeds 1,000 gallons per minute (GPM). If phased construction is allowed, the
         NCPE shall examine pump selection with impeller sizes sufficient to meet initial and
         future conditions or design the pump station to accommodate additional pump(s). As a
         general statement, the initial electrical service, standby power system, solids grinder,
         equipment hoisting system, and odor control system must be sized for ultimate station
         capacity (no phasing of these components allowed).

      4. All stations shall be submersible pump stations consisting of wet well and other precast
         concrete structures, piping and valves, pump control systems, SCADA, solids grinder,
         odor control, jib crane/hoisting equipment, back-up power source, related
         appurtenances, and fiber optic connection.

      5. All equipment, except for the generator, shall be designed for a sound rating of <55
         decibels A (dBA), 21-feet from the operating equipment. The generator shall include a
         sound attenuating enclosure and hospital grade silencer. The generator shall have a
         sound rating of <71 dBA (generators <150 kW), < 73 dBA (generators 150 kW- 250
         kW), or <75 dBA (generators > 250 kW), 21-feet from the operating equipment. Sound
         ratings are based on generator operating at 100% load. Warning horns and sirens have
         no sound restrictions.

         Pump station design shall minimize sound levels leaving the site. Factors to consider
         include equipment layout, cumulative sound levels, and walls that reflect sound.
         Equipment submittals that include the sound ratings for all major equipment shall be
         supplied and approved by the Town, prior to ordering equipment.

         Pump stations shall not be accepted by the Town until sound testing demonstrates that
         the above requirements are met. All sound testing shall be performed by reputable
         personnel to assure accuracy. The Director reserves the right to require certified sound


2021 ED&CS                                   13-8                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 127 of 229


         engineers, certified testing equipment, corrections, and/or retesting to demonstrate that
         the pump station and all components are performing as designed.




2021 ED&CS                                   13-9                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 128 of 229


      6. The Final Design plans shall include, at minimum, the following information:

         a) Cover Sheet with index of drawings and vicinity map

         b) Existing Conditions Plan

         c) Site Plan with all property lines, fences, gates, and locations of driveway and
            structures

         d) Grading plan with existing and proposed contours on 1-foot intervals, storm water
            measures, and 100-year flood elevations

         e) Utility Plan and Profile with gravity sewer, force main, water, and storm drainage
            piping (show pipe size/material and identify the force main discharge location),
            valves, chemical feed and fiberoptic.

         f) Landscaping Plan with plant lists, planting/staking details, and buffers

         g) Plan and Section drawings of all precast concrete structures including influent
            manhole, grinder manhole, wet well, valve vault, and miscellaneous structures

         h) Building Plan, Section, and Elevations; typical wall section(s)

         i) Mechanical drawings showing pumps, valves, piping, odor control, ventilation, and
            heating/air conditioning systems

         j) Electrical plans, including electrical site plan, one-line diagram, panel schedules,
            light fixture schedule, wire and conduit sizing, generator details, SCADA inputs
            and details, and grounding requirements and locations

         k) Instrumentation and Control (I&C) Plan

   D. CONSTRUCTION PHASE REQUIREMENTS

      1. Equipment Submittals

         a) The NCPE (or representative) shall observe construction to allow for preparation
            of the Engineer’s Certification, as required by the NCDEQ. The NCPE shall also
            review all equipment and material submittals (shop drawings) to confirm that
            finished construction will comply with approved plans and specifications. The
            NCPE shall also be responsible for forwarding submittals, as specified herein, to
            Town staff for review, comment, and approval, prior to the NCPE returning them
            to the Contractor. Review and approval by Town staff shall not relieve the NCPE
            from the responsibility of ensuring that all the project components meet these
            Standards.


2021 ED&CS                                  13-10                             Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                           Page 129 of 229


         b) At a minimum, Equipment Submittals shall include name of manufacturer; model
            supplied; fabrication and assembly drawings; detailed specifications; and data
            covering material, parts, devices, and accessories. Submittals shall also include
            system hydraulic schematics, electrical wiring diagrams, and control panel
            schematics. Additional information required for specific equipment is listed in the
            appropriate equipment section. Submittals for the following equipment shall be
            forwarded to the Town staff by the NCPE:

                                        Table 1: Submittals
             SECTION                               SUBMITTAL NAME
              13.01.C                                   Site Plan
                                                   Fencing and Gates
              13.02.B
                                              Eye Wash/Shower Wash Station
                                     Precast Concrete Wet Wells, Vaults, and Manholes
              13.02.C
                                                 Precast Concrete Building
                                               Check Valves and Plug Valves
                                                      Pressure Gauge
              13.02.D
                                                     Air Release Valves
                                                   Magnetic Flow Meter
              13.03.A                                Pumps and Motors
              13.03.B                               Pump Control Panel
              13.03.C                                 SCADA System
              13.03.D                            Grinder and Control Panel
              13.03.E                               Odor Control System
              13.03.F                          Jib Crane/Hoisting Equipment
              13.03.G                                    Generator
              13.03.H                        Automatic Transfer Switch (ATS)


         c) The table below identifies equipment manufacturers that are considered most
            suitable for the anticipated service in wastewater pump stations.




2021 ED&CS                                 13-11                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                           Page 130 of 229


                     Table 2: Equipment/Manufacturer List

  SECTION              EQUIPMENT                           MANUFACTURER
                                                                Watts
                Reduced Pressure Zone (RPZ)
    13.02.B                                                     Hersey
                    Backflow Prevention
                                                               Wilkens
                                                               Halliday,
                        Access Hatch
                                                                 Bilco
                                                      Duramer 1030 (SewerCote),
    13.02.C     Manhole/Wet Well Coatings          Cor-Cote SC (Sherwin-Williams),
                                                   Raven 405 (Raven Lining Systems)
                 Precast Concrete Buildings               Easi Span Building
                   Magnetic Flow Meter                     Badger M-3000
                                                               American
                           Valves                               Mueller
    13.02.D                                            APCO swing check valve
                                                              Vent-Tech
                Force Main Combination Air           (stainless steel isolation ball valve and
                  Release Valves (ARVs)            handle with flushing hardware, model to be
                                                          determined at time of review)
                                                          ABS USA (Sultzer)
    13.03.A       Pumps and Pump Motors             Fairbanks Morse (Pentair Water)
                                                          Flygt USA (Xylem)
              Electrical Cabinets and Enclosures           Control Interface
                                                      (pump manufacturer recommended)
    13.03.B
                                                   Roto Float (Anchor Scientific, Inc),
                       Float Switches
                                                   compatible (SJE Rhombus, Conery)
    13.03.C             VT SCADA                                    CITI
                                                             Muffin Monster
    13.03.D                Grinder
                                                   w/ guide rails (JWC Environmental)
    13.03.E         Odor Control System                           Evoqua
                                                             Acco Industries
    13.03.F     Jib Crane/Hoisting Equipment                        Yale
                                                         Lift-Tech International
                                                             Caterpillar, Inc.
                                                             Cummins Onan
    13.03.G           Generator System
                                                        Blue Star Power Systems
                                                                   Kohler
                                                             Caterpillar, Inc.
                                                                 Cummins,
    13.03.G           Generator Engine
                                                                   Onan
                                                                John Deere
    13.06.B          Internal Pipe Lining                     Protecto (401)

2021 ED&CS                              13-12                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                           Page 131 of 229


         d) Equipment submittals must receive approval from the Director or representative(s)
            prior to purchasing equipment. Purchasing equipment in no way obliges the Town
            to accept equipment that does not meet the Standards.

         e) Alternative equipment submittals (for manufacturers not listed in Table 2) shall
            include the following information, at a minimum:

             1) Current catalog data sheets and technical data to support compliance with these
                Standards.

             2) A detailed list stating differences between the named item and proposed
                alternate and a separate list stating all exceptions to these Standards. If no
                exceptions are listed, then no exceptions will be allowed.

             3) Contact name, address, and phone number for five (5) installations where the
                proposed equipment has been used in a similar capacity for two (2) or more
                years. The date for placing equipment in service, at each installation, shall be
                provided.

         f) Equipment that meets the Alternative Equipment submittal requirements, the
            Standards, technical specification requirements, and all other requirements of the
            Town, will be approved by the Director.

      2. Testing Results Submittals

         a) Perform drawdown test to verify pump capacity flow rates. Town representatives
            shall be present during the test. Documentation of the test shall be provided to the
            Town for approval.

         b) Test results shall be submitted for review prior to continuing progress on any
            equipment. If shop testing is required, results shall be submitted prior to start-up,
            testing and final acceptance of the equipment.

         c) A final, compiled summary of all equipment testing shall be provided upon
            completion of the project, prior to project closeout and final acceptance. This final,
            compiled summary shall consist of a single bound printed copy, and an electronic
            copy.

   E. POST CONSTRUCTION PHASE REQUIREMENTS

      1. Warranty

         a) All components must come with a warranty from the manufacturer that equipment
            shall be free of defects in workmanship and material, and shall operate as intended
            under the known conditions, for a minimum of 1-year after acceptance of the

2021 ED&CS                                   13-13                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 132 of 229


             system by the Town. The warranty shall be in printed form and made applicable to
             the Town (as Warrantee) at the time of acceptance for maintenance.

      2. Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Manuals

         a) O&M manuals are required for all equipment and systems. An electronic copy
            shall be supplied to the Town prior to startup of the subject equipment or
            systems. The O&M manuals shall contain all necessary information for proper
            operation and maintenance of the subject equipment and systems. At a minimum,
            the O&M manuals shall contain the following:

             1) Cover Sheet listing the following: Pump manufacturer, source of repair parts
                with address and phone number, operating conditions (rated capacity and TDH
                of each pump), model number, serial number, impeller diameter, data plate
                information, and data on all other equipment included as components in the
                pump station

             2) Pump Performance Design Curve               with   operating   conditions    and
                manufacturer’s Certified Pump Curve

             3) Detailed dimensional drawings of the pump and pump base elbow

             4) Detailed dimensional drawings of the pump and pump motor

             5) Wiring diagram and logic diagram for each control panel

             6) Pump and Motor Installation and Service Manual

             7) Detailed information related to other components of the pump station
                including, but not limited to, solids grinder, odor control, generator, ATS, jib
                crane/hoist, and HVAC systems

             8) Mylar as-built drawings showing all changes to approved construction plans
                made during construction

             9) Annotated hard copy and downloadable electronic copy of application program
                for all field programmable equipment (e.g. PLCs, operator interfaces, etc.)

             10) P.E. certification

             11) Warranty letter

             12) Documentation of recorded site plus access easement and/or right-of-way
                 (ROW) dedicated to the Town

             13) Copy of vendor reports for the start-up testing of their equipment

2021 ED&CS                                  13-14                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 133 of 229


             14) Operating instructions

             15) Troubleshooting techniques

             16) Maintenance schedules

             17) Assembly and disassembly instructions

             18) Instructions for start-up/shutdown, calibration, and adjustment

         b) A final, compiled O&M manual covering all equipment and systems supplied, shall
            be provided to the Town upon completion of the project, prior to project closeout
            and final acceptance. This final, compiled summary shall consist of three printed
            copies and an electronic copy (Flash Drive) of the subject equipment or
            systems.

         c) Any spare parts listed in the O&M manuals and/or recommended by the
            manufacturer shall be provided to the Town. At minimum, Contractor shall furnish
            one (1) set of spare parts as follows:

             1) One (1) spare pump with guide rail bracket attached to pump discharge flange

             2) One (1) lower seal assembly

             3) One (1) upper seal assembly

             4) One (1) set of bearings

             5) One (1) set of wear rings (unless an adjustable wear plate is provided)

             6) One (1) complete set of O-rings

             7) One (1) float switch with 50-feet of cable

             8) One (1) chain grip device with each pump (that can be lowered to the bottom
                of the pump lifting chain, engage a chain link, and hoist the pump out of the
                wet well without re-positioning the hoist hook)

             9) One (1) stainless steel chain with each pump (to guide and engage the chain
                grip device, provided by the pump supplier and rated for the weight of the
                pump/motor/manufacturer’s standard safety factor)




2021 ED&CS                                  13-15                             Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                           Page 134 of 229


      3. Inspections

         a) All equipment must be verified for compliance with the Standards by Town staff
            prior to installation. Non-conforming materials or equipment shall be immediately
            removed from the job site.

         b) Compliance with plans, Standards, and specifications shall be verified on a regular
            basis throughout the duration of construction by a representative from the Town.


13.02 PUMP STATION SITE AND STRUCTURES

   A. GENERAL

      1. Pump station sites shall be conveyed to the Town via deed and/or recordation for Town
         ownership and operation. A preliminary site plan for all pump stations shall be
         discussed in the Pre-Design meeting.

      2. The site shall be directly connected to a dedicated public ROW or have a dedicated
         access easement to a public ROW.

      3. The Town requires solids grinders, on-site backup power, and odor control facilities at
         all pump stations. Sizing of these items will be based on expected flow volumes and
         characteristics.

      4. All stations shall have a minimum of three (3) pumps of equal capacity; two (2)
         operational and one (1) uninstalled spare. Duplex pump stations shall be capable of
         handling flows exceeding the expected peak flow. The design peak flow shall be a
         minimum of 2.5 times the average daily flow. If the pump exceeds 1,000 GPM, or
         motor size exceeds 100 Horsepower (hp), the NCPE shall investigate duplex and triplex
         pump station requirements. Where three pumps are required, two pumps should have
         capacity to pump the peak sewage flows. Stations that require more than three pumps
         shall utilize dual wet wells, with the ability to isolate each for maintenance. Pumps and
         force mains shall be sized to provide a minimum force main velocity of 2.5 feet per
         second (ft/s) with one pump operating and a maximum velocity of 8 ft/s at firm
         capacity. The Town reserves the right to require a larger force main, at no cost to the
         Town, based upon operating (power) costs.

   B. SITE WORK

       1. The site shall be graded to drain away from the pump station, and to remove stormwater
           runoff in a non-erosive manner. Drainage swales shall be incorporated, if necessary.

       2. The site shall be stabilized and consist of compacted subgrade, low maintenance
           vegetative ground cover, or other suitable materials in accordance with Town
           Standards and Details. Visual screening and landscaping shall be provided.

2021 ED&CS                                   13-16                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 135 of 229


       3. Access

         a) The site shall feature adequate turnaround for a WB-50 service vehicle. If chemical
            feed systems are included, additional turning radii may be required.

         b) Access shall be a minimum 16-foot wide all-weather road, on a minimum 25-foot
            wide easement (or ROW) with grades <10%. Shoulders and side ditches should be
            included.

         c) Access shall be standard concrete curb tie and apron through the ROW and
            transition to an asphalt-concrete section, with an 8-inch stone base and 3-inch
            surface course, in accordance with Section 3 of the Town Standards and Details.

         d) Alternatively, after 40-feet of asphalt section, the access may transition to 12-inch
            of crushed stone over minimum 98% compacted subgrade.

      4. Fencing, Gates, and Landscaping

         a) Fencing shall be provided around the entire perimeter. The site shall be secured by
            an 8-foot high black UV resistant vinyl coated chain link fence with 3-wire vinyl
            coated barb arms, set at an outward facing 45-degree angle and located at the top
            of each post (the 8-foot height does not include the barb arms). Each wire is to be
            3 strand barb wire Class III galvanized or aluminized. The outer barbed wire shall
            hold a load of 250-pounds (lbs.). All fence posts shall be black vinyl coated over
            the galvanized steel. The pump station address must be labeled in 6-inch lettering
            and clearly posted on the fence.

         b) Manual swing gates for pump stations shall permit 180-degree opening and be
            minimum 16-feet wide (minimum two 8-foot-wide swing gates). All gate posts and
            corner posts shall be minimum 4-inch diameter. Fence gates shall be black vinyl
            coated with privacy slats rated for a minimum life span of 12-years.

         c) Fence shall be screened with an opaque buffer, in accordance with the Town’s
            Unified Development Ordinance (UDO). If site conditions do not allow an opaque
            buffer, privacy slats across the entire surface area of the fence, including gates, may
            be allowed, at the discretion of the Director.

         d) Buffers shall be provided along both sides of the access road and surrounding the
            gravel vehicular area. Buffers shall extend 50-feet from the gravel vehicular area,
            25-feet along the sides of the access easement. Opaque buffers shall be planted as
            defined in Town’s UDO.

         e) The Town shall reserve the right to establish other appearance requirements.

         f) Developer shall maintain the buffers for 2-years from the date of final (end of year)
            acceptance of the pump station.

2021 ED&CS                                   13-17                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 136 of 229


       5. The site shall feature locks and security features, as dictated by the Town, along with
          all necessary OSHA signage. Additionally, signage shall be provided on the gate
          which provides the name of the station, address, and emergency number of 919-557-
          9111 (blue lettering on a utility sign).

       6. An LED light equivalent to a high-pressure sodium vapor light with a minimum 600-
          watt capacity is required. The light shall be mounted on a utility pole that retracts or
          pivots for bulb maintenance from the ground level. The light shall be at a height of
          30-feet and controlled by means of a photocell and a Hand-Off/Reset-Auto (HOA)
          switch located on the light pole (with the photocell wired through the Auto position of
          the switch). All area lighting shall be provided in a downward projecting fixture, such
          as shoe box type light or approved equal. Open globe lighting shall be prohibited.

       7. A minimum 2-inch public water service shall be provided [minimum 50 GPM with a
          residual pressure of 30 pounds per square inch (psi)]. A Town water meter and an
          above-ground Reduced Pressure Backflow Preventer (RPZ) in a heated hot box shall
          be required. Any, and all, water connections shall be made downstream of the RPZ. A
          freeze proof yard hydrant (>50 GPM) shall be provided to allow the wet well and
          grinder manhole to be washed down periodically. A freeze proof eyewash and shower
          wash station with tepid water system (including water heater) shall be provided
          adjacent to the chemical storage facility.

       8. A grounding electrode system shall be provided for all wiring systems and shall be
          connected to the fence, generator, and electrical service.

   C. STRUCTURES

      1. General

         a) The submersible pump station structures shall consist of, at minimum, a grinder
            manhole, a wet well, and a valve vault. Large, integrated structures are permissible,
            however, there shall be walls separating the portions of the structure listed above.
            Electric motor operated grinders will be required at all stations. Pump station
            structures, other than the wet well, shall be provided with a means to remove
            accumulated water and wastewater from the structure.

         b) Wastewater pump stations, all related structures, and controls shall be protected
            from physical damage by the 100-year and 500-year local and FEMA flood plains
            and shall be elevated to 2-feet above the most restrictive elevation. Flood
            elevations shall be supported by a flood study on the tributary basin based on future
            land uses in accordance with the Town’s Comprehensive Plan. Pump stations shall
            remain fully functional, operational, accessible, and free from physical damage
            during a 100-year flood. All structures not meeting the elevation requirement shall
            be sealed watertight with a vent elevated a minimum of 2-feet above the 100-year
            flood elevation.


2021 ED&CS                                   13-18                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 137 of 229


         c) Cover slabs for wet well and valve vaults shall be reinforced concrete with integral
            cast in place access hatch covers. Cover slabs shall be reinforced as per ACI Code
            and specially reinforced around openings.

         d) Access covers for wet well and vaults shall be square lockable hatch, aluminum
            diamond pattern plate with stainless steel hinges and hardware capable of
            withstanding 300 pounds per square foot (psf), on an aluminum frame cast in place
            in the cover slab. All access covers shall be centered over equipment to
            accommodate service and removal. Access covers shall be double leaf or single
            leaf (as required) aluminum diamond pattern floor hatch capable of withstanding
            300 psf without permanent damage. Each leaf shall open 90 degrees and be attached
            to the frame by stainless steel hinges and hardware. The door shall have a lock in
            the open position and vinyl grip handle to release lock for closing.

         e) Fall protection grating shall be installed at all access hatches. The system shall be
            a grate consisting of two leafs made of 6061-T6 aluminum hinged on the same side
            of the hatch. The grate shall be designed to withstand a minimum pedestrian load
            of 300 psf. The grate openings shall be 4-inch x 6-inch force to allow both visual
            inspection and limited accessibility for maintenance purposes when the grate is
            closed. The leafs will pivot on aluminum hinge devices with 316 stainless steel
            hardware that permit them to rotate upward 90 degrees and automatically lock in
            place. Aluminum pull rods will be attached to the grate’s leafs, so the operator is
            positioned with the grate between him and the hatch’s opening whenever he raises
            a leaf. Each grate leaf will have a rod made from 316 stainless steel that
            automatically engages to secure the leaf in open position and can be lifted upward
            to permit the grate leaf to close. The hatch cover will not be able to shut until the
            grate is closed, thereby ensuring the grate is in position when the next operator
            opens the hatch cover. The grate shall have an OSHA safety yellowish finish to
            increase visual awareness of the safety hazard.

         f) All structures shall be designed to withstand hydrostatic forces, including uplift,
            and shall be equipped with anti-floatation.

      2. Wet Well

         a) The wet well shall have a minimum inside dimension of 6-feet and shall be large
            enough to easily accommodate the removal of each pump. The wet well shall be
            designed to have an operating volume sufficient to provide pump operating cycles
            to match the manufacturer’s recommendations. The pump operating cycles must be
            between two and eight times per hour at design daily flow (without being
            excessively deep). All wet wells must be concentric. Well point is required when
            setting wet well structure and must be utilized to accept a minimum 8-inch pipe to
            accommodate a portable sump pump. Avoid conflicts, particularly with electrical
            equipment. Upon completion it shall be capped and left in place for future use.



2021 ED&CS                                  13-19                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 138 of 229


         b) The wet well shall be constructed of precast concrete manhole sections or cast-in-
            place concrete. Extended bases or another foundation shall be used to provide
            adequate bearing surface and floatation protection, if needed. All concrete shall
            have a minimum 28-day compressive strength of 4000 psi. Design must be per
            manufacturer specifications and engineered design requirements.

         c) Precast concrete manhole wet wells shall conform to ASTM C-478. Manhole
            section joints shall be of a durable mastic sealing material and be watertight in
            accordance with ASTM C-443. The precast sections for the wet well and valve
            vault shall be further waterproofed on the outside of the wet well by sealing the
            exterior of the joints with ConSeal CS 212 polyolefin-backed exterior joint wrap –
            6-inch minimum width – with compatible primer.

         d) Cast-in-place wet wells shall be properly designed by a NCPE and include
            appropriate structural support, waterproofing, exterior coating, structure covers,
            access hatches, etc.

         e) At a minimum, wet wells shall have a vent made from ductile iron (DI) with flanged
            joint pipe fittings. A bronze or aluminum insect screen shall be included at the
            exposed end of the vent pipe.

         f) Wet wells and wet well piping shall be coated with a monolithic epoxy coating
            system per Table 2 and installed in accordance with manufacturer specifications, in
            no more than 2 applications, with no runs and no holidays. High voltage holiday
            testing shall be utilized to verify there are no voids in the coating. Epoxy coatings
            shall only be applied to adequately cured concrete structures that have been
            sufficiently washed and prepared for epoxy coating installation. Properly applied
            coating shall provide a smooth finish and fill all pores in concrete substrate.

         g) Care will be taken to ensure no epoxy coating is applied to the pump coupling face,
            the guide rails, or any other part that needs to allow movement or replacement on a
            regular basis.

         h) Each wet well that is 6-feet in depth or deeper, shall be equipped with a removable
            extension ladder and ladder cover protection to enable access. The Town shall
            designate the location during the review process.

         i) All bolted connections, including pipe flanges, inside the wet well shall be made
            using stainless steel bolts, nuts, and washers.

      3. Valve/Meter Vaults

         a) The valve/meter vault shall consist of a custom-built section, or a precast concrete
            rectangular structure at least 6-feet square. Maintain 18-inches or 24-inches
            clearance from the sidewalls to the nearest edge of pipe or valve. The valve/meter
            vault shall be complete with a drain that goes to the wet well, or where a gravity

2021 ED&CS                                  13-20                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 139 of 229


             drain cannot be included, a sump with a minimum ½-hp mercury float switch
             activated sump pump discharging to the wet well. The valve vault shall include an
             access ladder attached to the vault wall and access cover cast in the top slab with
             an extendable/retractable grab bar. The drainpipe between the valve vault and the
             wet well shall be made of PVC and have a PVC back water valve at the wet well
             end. Stainless steel stands shall be used to support valves and other appurtenances
             requiring support.

      4. Manholes

         a) Any manholes installed on the pump station site need to meet requirements of
            Section 7 of these Standards. The exterior of all manholes within the 100-year flood
            elevation and in wetland areas shall be coated per Table 2 to prevent weepage or
            attack by acidic soils. Individual joints shall be wrapped with Conwrap, Conseal,
            or approved equal and approved by the Town prior to backfilling.

      5. Buildings

         a) Pump motors >10-hp shall have a precast concrete building to house the control
            and electrical panels. Buildings shall have climate control systems to provide air
            conditioning (for dehumidification) and heating. Pump stations with ultimate pump
            motor sizes <10-hp may utilize an aluminum backplate, under a weather hood and
            mounted on galvanized posts, to mount all control and electrical panels.

   D. PIPING AND VALVES

      1. Piping: Discharge piping shall be minimum Class 53 DI flanged pipe as manufactured
         under AWWA specification C151. Discharge piping shall be flanged ductile pipe
         (Class 53 minimum) sized to produce a minimum head loss while maintaining a
         minimum velocity. All exposed piping shall be painted/coated and have adequately
         sized and located thrust restraint.

      2. Pump piping: The discharge connection elbow shall be a straight through fitting with
         no flap valve and shall be permanently installed in the wet well along with the discharge
         piping. The pumps shall be automatically connected to the discharge connection elbow
         when lowered into place. The entire weight of the pump shall bear upon the guides and
         base support with no part of the pump bearing directly on the floor of the wet well. All
         hardware used shall be 316 stainless-steel.

      3. Force Main: The force main within the pump station site shall be constructed of ductile
         iron pipe (DIP) and fittings with interior coating. The site shall also include an
         emergency bypass with a flanged connection for a portable, diesel driven pump. The
         bypass connection shall be the same size as the force main and shall include a gate
         valve to isolate the flange connection from the force main. The NCPE shall submit
         calculations confirming that the anticipated operating and surge pressures will be
         within the pressure ratings of the proposed DI force main and fittings.

2021 ED&CS                                   13-21                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 140 of 229


      4. All piping, couplings, fittings, valves, etc. shall be Class 125 for flanges meeting ANSI
         B16.1, unless Class 250 flanges are required for high head installations.

      5. Check valve: An external weighted lever check valve shall be provided for the
         discharge pipe of each pump, in conformance with AWWA C508 standards. Check
         valves shall be cast iron/DI bodied, double bronze side plug construction with resilient
         seated disc assembly and replaceable rubber disc. The valve shall be capable of being
         mounted in the horizontal position with a minimum of 3-feet of separation between
         each valve body and the outside walls. All valves shall be centered on the vault door
         for maintenance access and valve removal. For valve sizes <12-inches, provide a
         minimum of 200 psi working pressure rating and 400 psi hydrostatic pressure rating;
         for valves >12-inches, provide minimum 150 psi working pressure rating with 300 psi
         hydrostatic pressure rating.

      6. Plug Valve: A plug valve shall be provided on the discharge pipe from the valve vault
         (beginning of the force main). Plug valves shall be eccentric action and resilient plug
         facing with heavy-duty stainless-steel bearings and welded-in corrosion resistant nickel
         seat. Pump station plug valves shall be “full port” cross sectional area perpendicular to
         the flow of at least 100% of the adjoining pipe.

         Plug valves and check valves on the discharge side of each pump shall be in a valve
         vault separate from and adjacent to the wet well. A restrained flanged coupling adapter
         shall be installed on each discharge main between the wet well and the valve vault. An
         isolation plug valve shall be installed downstream approximately 50-feet from the
         valve/meter vault to isolate the force main from the vault and equipment. Valves shall
         be rated for a minimum of 175 psi working pressure and be able to pass a 3-inch solid.

      7. Pressure gauge: +/- 2% accuracy pressure gauges with a 3-inch or larger liquid filled
         dial, stainless steel case, and graduated to 150% of the force main static pressure shall
         be provided on each discharge pipe. A pressure gauge shall be installed on the pump
         side of the check valve and on the static side of the check valve. Isolation seals and the
         cut-off ball valve shall be provided between the gauge and force main. The gauges shall
         be easily visible and legible from the valve vault hatch opening. The gauges shall also
         be capable of delivering an electronic remote signal compatible with SCADA.

      8. Air Release Valve (ARV): There shall be an ARV installed in a manhole on the force
         main, outside of the valve vault, prior to the main leaving the pump station site.

      9. Magnetic Flow Meter: The NCPE may propose a meter with a smaller diameter than
         the force main to improve the velocity profile, if the projected flows allow. The
         magnetic (mag) flow meter shall be installed in a precast concrete manhole with sump
         pump, as indicated on the plans. A restrained flanged coupling adapter is to be provided
         to facilitate the mag meter removal/replacement. The amplifier should be remotely
         mounted in the building (or electrical rack). There shall be valved bypass piping (3
         valves required) around the mag meter manhole, to allow the meter to be serviced or
         replaced without interrupting the pump station’s operation. Submit shop drawings that

2021 ED&CS                                    13-22                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 141 of 229


         include information on the construction of the flow tube and liner, junction box, and
         amplifier.

      10. Anchor Bolts

         a) Anchor bolts and nuts shall be furnished for each item per the manufacturer’s
            specification in accordance with Table 2. Anchor bolts and associated hardware
            shall be 316 stainless steel.

         b) Anti-seize compound will be applied to the threads of all stainless-steel bolts before
            assembly.

   E. ELECTRICAL – GENERAL

      1. All electrical systems shall meet all applicable electrical standards and code
         requirements, including, but not limited to: ANSI, ASTM, NEMA, IEEE, EEI, HEI,
         ISO, NFPA, SAE, NEC, UL508, as well as any other federal, state, or local codes.

      2. Electrical service to all pump stations shall be appropriately sized 3 phase power, 480-
         VAC with ATS to automatically start on-site emergency generators. The electrical
         power entrance shall be through a meter base, followed by a NEMA 3R heavy duty,
         single throw, and circuit breaker. This shall be followed by a heavy-duty ATS. There
         shall be a NEMA 3R heavy-duty single throw fusible safety switch between the main
         power and the ATS.

      3. Electrical equipment inside the wet well shall meet the requirements for Class I,
         Division I, and Group C/D service.

      4. All electrical components shall be suitably sized to be capable of service with all
         electrically powered equipment running.

      5. All electrical components, including panels, shall be sealed off from the wet well in
         accordance with the latest editions of the NEC and NFPA 820 requirements for
         electrical service to Class I Division I.

      6. The use of rigid conduits is required. Generally, PVC shall be used below ground and
         aluminum shall be used above ground. All conduits from the wet well shall extend to
         disconnect switches or junction boxes, with the conduits terminated 24-inches below
         the switch/box, providing an air gap above the classified space. All cables shall be
         supported with liquid tight cord connectors with strain relief grips.

      7. Pump station electrical and control equipment shall be in a building as described above,
         or under a weather hood for small pump stations <10-hp. An aluminum weather hood
         with a clear height of 7-feet, an overhang of at least 4-feet and a thickness of 3/16 inch
         shall be provided for control equipment exposed to the weather (the back panel and
         side panel shall also be 3/16-inch-thick aluminum). The support structure shall be

2021 ED&CS                                    13-23                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 142 of 229


         structural steel members assembled to provide individual, direct support to the control
         equipment panel, transfer switch, safety switches, meter base and the weather hood.
         The steel frame shall be painted with a two component, high build epoxy polyamide
         paint system designed for severe service. All weather hoods shall be provided with a
         light and GFI protected 120V outlet. Weather hoods shall be installed to eliminate
         runoff to the front side.

      8. All electrical equipment, including non-submersible motors, electrical panels, control
         panels, backup generators, etc., shall be located a minimum of 2-feet above the 100-
         year flood elevation. All electrical enclosures shall have hinged doors/covers. The
         control panel shall include a concrete pad, minimum 8-feet X 4-feet X 6-inch thick.

      9. A non-fused electrical disconnect is to be supplied and installed mid-way from the wet
         well and the pump control panel. This disconnect shall be NEMA type 4X suitably
         sized to house all pump power and control wiring. Rigid metal conduit shall be utilized
         with the necessary seal-off fittings. Terminal strips shall be provided to properly split
         the power termination to facilitate pump removal from the disconnect and not the pump
         control panel.

         Exposed outlet boxes for the outdoor and indoor wet process areas used for lighting
         fixtures, switches, and receptacles shall be aluminum with rubber neoprene gasketed
         covers of similar metal. Junction and pull boxes shall be NEMA 4X stainless steel
         construction and of ample size to house the required devices. Boxes shall be provided
         with hasps.

         The minimum size of boxes shall be according to the NEC. No box shall be filled to
         more than 40% capacity.

         Where control wires must be interconnected in a junction box, terminal strips consisting
         of an adequate number of screw terminals shall be installed. Current carrying parts of
         the terminal blocks shall be of ample capacity to carry the full load current of the
         circuits connected. Approximately 20% of the terminals provided shall consist of spare
         terminals. Terminals shall be lettered and/or numbered to conform with the wiring
         diagram.

   F. PUMP STATION DEMOLITION AND ABANDONMENT

      1. Furnish all labor, materials, equipment, and incidentals required for demolition and/or
         removal and disposal of existing pump stations and related facilities to be demolished
         and/or removed.

      2. This section also includes complete or partial removal and disposal of specified existing
         structures, foundations, slabs, piping, mechanical, electrical, existing (to be abandoned)
         buried piping, and miscellaneous appurtenances encountered during construction
         operation.


2021 ED&CS                                    13-24                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 143 of 229


        3. These specifications call attention to certain activities necessary to maintain and
           facilitate operation during and immediately following construction and do not purport
           to cover all of the activities necessary. The Contractor shall exercise due concern for
           operation of existing sanitary sewer and shall diligently direct all his activities toward
           maintaining continuous operation of the existing sewer mains and minimizing
           operation inconvenience.

        4. Demolition Includes:

               a. Demolition as necessary above and below finished grade of all specified pump
                  stations, manholes and related facilities which are to be demolished and/or
                  removed, including but not limited to miscellaneous metal, piping, concrete
                  slabs on grade, concrete slabs below grade, and concrete walls and foundations,
                  as shown on the Construction Drawings.
               b. Temporary modification of structures, equipment, appurtenances, and utilities
                  as necessary to allow for operation of the facilities during construction.
               c. Careful removal and handling of salvageable existing equipment as specified
                  and delivery of this equipment to the Town.
               d. Off-site disposal of excess and unacceptable materials.

        5. Site Restoration:

               a. Backfill and compaction of excavations and other holes resulting from
                  demolition operations or existing prior to any work, as indicated.
               b. Restoration of vegetative cover.
               c. Repairs to fencing, driveways, or other existing facilities removed or damaged
                  during construction.

        6. Submittals:

               a. Submit proposed methods and operations of demolition and/or removal of the
                  existing pump stations and related facilities to the Town prior to the start of
                  work. Include in the schedule the coordination of shutoff, capping, and
                  continuation of utility service as required.

               b. Provide a detailed sequence of demolition and removal work, flow bypass, and
                  temporary pumping operations to ensure the uninterrupted progress of the
                  Owner's.

               c. Before commencing demolition work, all modifications necessary to protect
                  facilities designated to remain shall be completed.


13.03    PUMP STATION EQUIPMENT


2021 ED&CS                                      13-25                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                                Page 144 of 229


   A. PUMPS

      1. General

         a) Submersible pumps and major accessories shall be supplied by a single
            manufacturer per Table 2.

         b) Each pump unit shall be complete with a closed-coupled, submersible electric
            motor, and other appurtenances required for proper operation.

         c) The equipment shall be suitable for the service conditions and shall be capable of
            meeting all operating requirements of the pump system.

         d) Each pumping unit including motor and all integral controls shall be rated and
            labeled for use in a Class I. Division I. Group C/D area as defined by the NEC.

         e) Each item shall be identified with indelible markings for the intended service. Tag
            numbers shall be clearly marked on all shipping labels and on the outside of all
            containers.

      2. Submittals

         a) Complete fabrication and assembly drawings, together with detailed specifications
            and data covering materials, parts, devices, and accessories, shall be submitted in
            accordance with the submittals section. The data and specifications for each unit
            shall include, but are not limited to, the following:

             1) Pumps

                   a). Name of manufacturer

                   b). Type and model

                   c). Rotating speed

                   d). Size of discharge elbow outlet or nozzle

                   e). Net weight (mass) of the pump and motor only

                   f). Complete performance curves showing capacity versus head, brake
                       horsepower (bhp) (kW), NPSH required, and efficiency

                   g). Data on shop painting

             2) Motors


2021 ED&CS                                  13-26                             Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                           Page 145 of 229


                  a). Name of manufacturer

                  b). Type and Model

                  c). Type of bearings and method of lubrication

                  d). Rated size of motor, hp (kW), and service factor
                  e). Insulation class and temperature rise

                  f). Full load rotative speed

                  g). Net weight

                  h). Efficiency at full load and rated pump condition

                  i). Full load current

                  j). Locked rotor current

         b) O&M Manuals shall include, at a minimum, the following information:

             1) Equipment function, normal operating characteristics, and limiting conditions

             2) Assembly, installation, alignment, adjustment, and checking instructions

             3) Operating instructions for startup, routine and normal operation, regulation and
                control, shutdown, and emergency conditions

             4) Lubrication and maintenance instructions

             5) Guide to troubleshooting

             6) Parts list and predicted life of parts subject to wear

             7) Outlined, cross-section, and assembly drawings; engineering data; and wiring
                diagrams

             8) Test data and performance curves

      3. Pumps

         a) Pumps shall be submersible, non-clog sewage pumps capable of passing a 3-inch
            sphere. Pumps shall be capable of handling raw, unscreened sewage. Major pump
            components shall be of gray cast iron devoid of burrs, pits, or other irregularities.



2021 ED&CS                                   13-27                             Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 146 of 229


         b) The impeller casing shall have well-rounded water passages and smooth interior
            surfaces free from cracks, porosity, blowholes, or other irregularities. The discharge
            nozzle shall be flanged and sufficiently rigid to support the pumping unit under all
            operating conditions.

         c) All mating surfaces of major components shall be machined and fitted with O-rings
            where watertight sealing is needed. Sealing shall be accomplished by O-ring
            contact on four surfaces and O-ring compression in two planes, without reliance on
            a specific fastener torque or tension to obtain a watertight joint. The use of elliptical
            O-rings, gaskets, or seals requiring a specific fastener torque value to obtain and
            maintain compression and watertightness will not be acceptable. The use of
            secondary sealing compounds, gasket cement, grease, or other devices to obtain
            watertight joints will not be acceptable.

      4. Pump Motors

         a) Motor shall be provided by the pump manufacturer; air-filled, totally submersible;
            and appropriately sized 3 phase power, 60-Hertz (Hz) motors with a maximum
            speed of 1800 revolutions per minute (RPM). The motors shall meet the
            requirements of Class I, Division I, and Group D for hazardous locations, and shall
            be sized to non-overloading throughout the entire operating range of the selected
            impeller. The motor shall meet the requirements of NEMA MG1 Part 30 and 31 for
            operation on pulse width modulation (PWM) type Variable Frequency Drives
            (VFD).

         b) A heat sensor thermostat shall be attached to and embedded in the winding and be
            connected in series with the motor starter contactor coil to stop motor if temperature
            of winding is more than 200 degrees Fahrenheit (F). Thermostat shall reset
            automatically when motor cools to safe operating temperature. The common pump
            motor shaft shall be of 416 stainless steel.

         c) The motor shall be protected by a mechanical seal system. A double electrode shall
            be mounted in the seal chamber to detect any water entering the chamber through
            the lower seal. Water in the chamber shall cause a red light to turn on at the control
            panel. This signal shall not stop the motor but shall act as a warning only.

         d) Power cables to pumps shall be American Wire Gauge (AWG) (min) Hypalon
            jacketed type silver plated copper (SPC) cable a minimum of 50-feet in length.

         e) Motor nameplate rating shall exceed the maximum power required by the pump in
            the operating head range. Each motor shall have a voltage, frequency, and phase
            rating as required and shall have a service factor of 1.15. The stator housing shall
            be an air-filled, watertight casing. A cooling jacket shall encase the motor housing
            for each pump where needed to maintain adequate cooling. Cooling jacket shall
            require no external source of cooling water. Motor insulation shall be moisture
            resistant, Class F, 180 degrees Celsius (C). Each motor shall be NEMA Design B

2021 ED&CS                                    13-28                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                                Page 147 of 229


             for continuous duty at 40 degrees C ambient temperature and designed for at least
             10 starts per hour.

         f) Each motor housing shall be provided with a moisture detection system provided
            by the motor manufacturer, complete with all sensors, control power transformer,
            intrinsically safe control modules, and relays.

         g) The motor bearings shall be antifriction, permanently lubricated type. The bearing
            shall be fixed to carry the pump thrust and the upper bearing free to move axially.
            The bearings shall have a calculated ABMA L10 Live Rating of 40,000 hours when
            operating at maximum operating head. Maximum shaft runout at the mechanical
            seals shall not exceed 2 mils at any point in the operating head range.

         h) Thrust bearings shall be protected by bearing temperature switches. The switches
            shall be normally closed automatic reset type rated 5-amperes (amps) at 120V AC.

         i) Each motor shall be capable of continuous operating in air (unsubmerged) for at
            least 24-hours under pump full load conditions, without exceeding the temperature
            rise limits for the motor insulation system.

         j) Each pump shall be equipped with one or more multiconductor cable assemblies
            for power and control. Each multiconductor assembly containing power cables
            shall be provided with a separate grounding conductor. Each cable assembly shall
            bear a permanently embossed code or legend indicating the cable is suitable for
            submerged use. Cable sizing shall conform to NEC requirements.

         k) All cables shall be of sufficient length to terminate in a junction box outside the wet
            well, with 10-feet of slack that shall be coiled on a cable hook at the top of the wet
            well. Each cable shall be supported by AISI Series 300 corrosion-resistant PVC
            Style woven Kellem Grips to prevent damage to the cable insulation. Mounting of
            cable supports in the wet well shall be coordinated to prevent damage to the cable.

         l) The cable entry water seal shall include a strain relief and a grommet type seal
            designed so that a specific fastener torque is not required to ensure a watertight
            submersible seal. The cable entry junction box and motor shall be separated by a
            stator lead sealing gland or a terminal board. The junction box shall isolate the
            motor interior from moisture gaining access through the top of the stator housing.

         m) Motors with an adjustable frequency speed controller shall be derated to
            compensate for harmonic heating effects and reduced self-cooling capability at
            low-speed operation so the motor does not exceed Class B temperature rise when
            operating in the installed condition at load with power received from the adjustable
            frequency drive. All motors driven by adjustable frequency drives shall be supplied
            with full phase insulation on the end turns and shall meet the requirements of
            NEMA MG 1, Part 31. In addition, motors shall be designed to be continually
            pulsed at the motor terminals with a voltage of 1600-volts AC.

2021 ED&CS                                   13-29                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 148 of 229


         n) Adjustable Speed Drives: Adjustable frequency drives shall be provided as
            specified by the Director or if the projected flow >.5 MGD.

         o) Station pumps 15-30-hp shall have a 30-hp rated reduced voltage soft starter
            (RVSS). Stations with pumps > 30-hp shall utilize variable frequency drives with
            appropriately sized RVSS.
      5. Appurtenances

         a) The lift out systems shall consist of a straight elbow that bolts on the bottom of the
            basin, a combination disconnect assembly with a seal flange that mounts to the
            pump, rail support guides that fasten to the wall of the basin, and guide and support
            brackets that mount to the pump. The guide rails shall be type 316 stainless steel,
            2-inch minimum diameter, schedule 40.

         b) Guiderail Mounted Base. A discharge base and discharge elbow shall be furnished
            by the pump manufacturer. The base shall be sufficiently rigid to firmly support the
            guiderails, discharge piping, and pumping unit under all operating conditions. The
            base shall have one or more integral support legs or pads suitable for bolting to the
            floor of the wet well. The face of the discharged elbow inlet flange shall be
            perpendicular to the floor and shall contact the face of the pump discharge nozzle
            flange. The diameter and drilling of the elbow outlet flange shall conform to ANSI
            B16.1, Class 125. The pump and motor assembly shall be automatically connected
            to and supported by the discharge base and guiderails so that the unit can be
            removed from the wet well and replaced without the need for operating personnel
            to enter the wet well.

         c) Sliding Bracket. Each guiderail mounted pumping unit shall be provided with an
            integral, self-aligning guiderail sliding bracket. The bracket shall be designed to
            obtain a wedging action between flange faces as final alignment of the pump occurs
            in the connected position. The bracket shall maintain proper contact and a suitably
            sealed connection between flange faces under all operating conditions. The sliding
            bracket shall be non-sparking.

         d) Guiderails. Each guiderail mounted pumping unit shall be equipped with one or
            more guiderails. Guiderails shall be sized to fit the discharge base and the sliding
            bracket and shall extend upwards from the discharge base to just below the bottom
            of the access hatch. An upper guiderail bracket shall be provided at the pump access
            opening. Guiderails shall be made of stainless steel.

         e) Lifting Chain. Each guiderail mounted pumping unit shall be provided with a chain
            suitable for removing and installing. The chain shall be stainless steel with 4X6
            lifting eyes at 10-foot intervals starting at the top. A suitable chain hook shall be
            provided at the top of the wet well. The pump shall be equipped with an open lifting
            hoop suitable for attachment of standard chain fittings, or for hooking from the wet
            well surface. The hoop shall be ductile cast iron ASTM A536 (60-40-18) and shall

2021 ED&CS                                   13-30                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 149 of 229


             be rated to lift a minimum of four times the pump weight. A 6-foot length
             (minimum) stainless steel chain shall be attached to the bail with a stainless steel
             shackle. Pump lift chains are required to be stainless steel and must extend a
             minimum of 5-feet above normal wet well operating level.

         f) Special Tools and Accessories. Equipment requiring periodic repair and adjustment
            shall be furnished complete with all special tools, instruments, and accessories
            required for proper maintenance. Equipment requiring special devices for lifting or
            handling shall be furnished complete with those devices.

         g) A replica of the nameplate with serial number, model number, manufacturer,
            operating conditions, etc. shall be provided for each pump.

      6. Shop Painting

         a) All iron and steel parts which will be in contact with pumped liquid or submerged
            after installation, including the inside of the casing, the impeller, and the discharge
            elbow, shall be shop cleaned in accordance with the coating manufacturer’s
            recommendations and painted with the epoxy coating system specified. At least 1
            quart of the finished coat material shall be furnished with each pump for field
            touchup.

         b) All other iron and steel surfaces, except stainless steel and machined surfaces, shall
            be protected with suitable protective coatings applied in the shop. Surfaces of the
            equipment that will be inaccessible after assembly shall be protected for the life of
            the equipment. Exposed surfaces shall be finished, thoroughly cleaned, and filled
            as necessary to provide a smooth, uniform base for painting. Electric motors, speed
            reducers, starters, and other self-contained or enclosed components shall be shop
            primed or finished with an oil resistant enamel or universal type primer suitable for
            top coating in the field with a universal primer and aliphatic polyurethane system.

         c) Surfaces to be coated after installation shall be prepared for painting as
            recommended by the paint manufacturer for the intended service, and then shop
            painted with one or more coats of the specified primer.

   B. PUMP CONTROL SYSTEMS

      1. Submittals: Complete fabrication and assembly drawings, together with detailed
         specifications and data covering materials, parts, devices, and accessories shall be
         submitted in accordance with the submittal section. The data and specifications for the
         Control panel shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

         a) Name of acceptable manufacturer per Table 2

         b) Type and model


2021 ED&CS                                   13-31                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 150 of 229


         c) Enclosure rating

         d) Dimensions of complete panel

         e) Electrical schematics and wiring diagram

         f) Liquid level sensors with mounting details, cable lengths, and pump controls
         g) Published descriptive data on each item and all accessories, indicating all specific
            characteristics and options

      2. Enclosure: The Control Equipment Enclosure shall be a NEMA type 4X fiberglass and
         be of suitable size to house all components. A locking hasp shall be provided with no
         screw clamp type latches. Enclosure shall be fabricated from fiberglass. The top of the
         enclosure shall serve as a drip shield and the seam free sides shall prevent rain and sleet
         from entering. Inner panel shall be made of fiberglass.

      3. Hinged Inner Door: An inner door shall be furnished. Overload reset push buttons,
         circuit breakers, switches pilot lights, and hour meters shall be the only components
         accessible with door closed. The door shall be hinged and may be opened when service
         is required.

      4. Line Terminal Block: A terminal block shall be furnished with properly sized line lugs
         to accept the main power source entering the control panel. Load lugs shall be adequate
         to accept all required load size wiring requirements. All live parts shall be fully
         shielded.

      5. Motor Circuit Breaker (440-480-VAC): A properly sized, molded case, thermal
         hydraulic-magnetic circuit breaker or motor protector shall be provided for each pump
         motor. Line and load sides shall be equipped with lugs properly sized for the
         horsepower and current rating of the motor(s). The interrupting rating shall be 5,000
         root mean square (RMS) symmetrical amps.

      6. Transformer Primary Circuit Breaker: A properly sized, two pole, molded case circuit
         breaker shall be furnished ahead of the control power 120-VAC power transformer for
         short circuit protection and disconnecting power to the transformer.

      7. Control Power Transformer: An industrial quality control transformer shall be
         furnished to provide control voltage. The transformer shall be furnished to provide
         more than adequate kilovolt amperes (kVA) rating to provide 120-VAC power for all
         items required in the control and alarm circuits. Transformers shall be protected in their
         secondary by properly sized supplement circuit breaker(s).

      8. Magnetic Contactors and Overload Relays: A magnetic contactor shall be furnished for
         each motor. A separate panel mounted, 3 leg (3 phase) overload relay or motor
         protector shall be supplied for each motor. Each leg of the overloaded relay shall be
         equipped with a properly sized overload heater. Electronic overloads are not

2021 ED&CS                                    13-32                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                               Page 151 of 229


         acceptable. Contractor and overload relay shall be properly sized for the required
         horsepower, voltage, and phase.

      9. Elapsed Time Meters: Six-digit, non-resettable elapsed time meters shall be mounted
         in the control panel enclosure inner door to record the run time for each pump.

      10. Condensation Strip Heater with Thermostat: A strip heater shall be furnished to prevent
          condensation within the control panel enclosure. The heater shall be controlled by a
          panel mounted, adjustable thermostat.

      11. Phase & Voltage: A phase failure, reversal and under voltage monitor shall be supplied
          to prevent the motors from running under low voltage, phase loss, or phase reversal
          conditions. The monitor shall lock out the control circuit until the problem is corrected
          and automatically reset. The phase and voltage monitor shall be adjustable.

      12. Lighting and Surge Suppressors: Suitable lighting and transient level surge suppressors
          shall be provided to protect motors and control equipment from lightning induced or
          other line surges. Surge suppressors shall meet current UL standards.

      13. Thru-Door Overload Reset Push Buttons: Overload reset push buttons shall be
          provided for each overload relay. Push buttons shall be mounted so that with inner door
          closed, overloaded relays maybe reset without entering high voltage compartment.

      14. Switches: Heavy-duty industrial grade oil tight 22-millimeter (mm) switches shall be
          provided for each pump for “Hand/off/Automatic” operation selection. All switch
          components shall be made of see-through polycarbonate for simplified inspection of
          contracts. Cams and strokers shall be Teflon impregnated for abrasion free service
          without lubrication. The switches required shall be as follows:

                                     Table 3: Switches
                         Switch Function
                                                       Voltage
                          (Name Plate)
                               HOA                          120-VAC

      15. Pilot Lights: Full voltage, push to test, heavy-duty industrial grade oil-tight pilot lights
          shall be provided. All pilot light components shall be made of corrosion resistant metals
          and polyesters. An insulated socket shall be furnished to eliminate the possibility of
          shock during bulb change. Bulb change shall not require removal of the socket. Bulbs
          shall be “super bright” LED type. Lens shall be 22-mm and made of lexan. The pilot
          lights required shall be as follows:

                                   Table 4: Pilot Lights
                 Pilot Light Function
                                         Voltage                Lens Color
                     (Name Plate)


2021 ED&CS                                     13-33                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                                 Page 152 of 229


                        PUMP 1              120-VAC              GREEN
                        PUMP 2              120-VAC              GREEN

      16. Seal Fail Alarm Circuit with Test Push Button: The control panel shall be equipped
          with a conductance actuated control relay that shall respond to current from a moisture
          sensor in the pump seal chamber. Relay contacts shall be rated at 10-amps minimum.
          All molded structural parts shall be of high mechanical and dielectric strength,
          structural dimensionally stable, arc resistant, thermosetting plastic. Base plate shall be
          high strength, diecast aluminum alloy. Solid state type relays shall not be considered
          acceptable for seal fail monitoring applications. An amber alarm pilot light shall
          illuminate upon alarm condition. Each pilot light shall include contacts that shall allow
          testing of the seal failure circuit and pilot light bulb by pushing. Bulb change shall not
          require removal of the socket. Bulbs shall be “super bright” LED type.

      17. Seal Failure Circuit Test Push Button (Illuminated): Heavy-duty industrial grade oil-
          tight push buttons shall be provided. All push button components shall be furnished to
          eliminate the possibility of shock during bulb change. Bulb change shall not require
          removal of the socket. Bulbs shall be “super bright” LED type. Lens shall be 22-mm
          and made of Lexan. The push buttons required shall be as follows:

                       Table 5: Seal Failure Circuit Test Push Button
                 Pilot Button Function
                                            Voltage         Lens Color
                      (Name Plate)
                  PUMP 1 SEAL FAIL           120-VAC              AMBER
                  PUMP 2 SEAL FAIL           120-VAC              AMBER

      18. Pump Alternator Circuit (For Duplex Pump): The electro-mechanical alternator relay
          shall be of industrial design specifically for use in pump applications. It shall have
          single-pole double-throw heavy-duty 10-amp silver cadmium oxide contracts enclosed
          in a transparent cover. The snap action contacts shall transfer when the unit is de-
          energized. The circuit shall never be closed or opened while current is being conducted.
          The alternator circuit shall alternate the lead pump position between the pumps and
          shall allow the lag pump to start in response to a rising water level in the wet well. A
          four-position switch shall be provided on the exterior of the pump control panel inner
          door. The switch shall have a position for: Pump 1, Pump 2, or Both.

      19. Control Relay(s): Plug-in control relays with 120-VAC coils shall be provided as
          required. Contact rating shall be 5-amps (minimum). Sockets shall be of the same
          manufacturer as the relays and hold-down clips shall be furnished to prevent relay from
          sliding out of the socket. Relays shall have indicator lights showing when they are
          engaged.




2021 ED&CS                                    13-34                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                               Page 153 of 229


      20. High Wet Well Level Alarm: The control panel shall be provided with a suitable alarm
          circuit, activated by a separate level control. This alarm shall signal a high water
          condition in the wet well. Terminals shall be furnished in the control panel of externally
          mounted alarm devices. A red flashing light shall be provided as a visual alarm of the
          high water in the wet well. A continuous sounding horn shall also be provided as an
          audible alarm of the high water in the wet well. Provide a pushbutton to silence audible
          alarm.

      21. Liquid Level Controls: Level control will be achieved by means of a corrosion resistant
          level sensing pressure transducer. Float-actuated mercury level control switches shall
          serve as a backup for low level alarm and high level alarm functions. The mercury
          switch shall be encapsulated in polyurethane foam for corrosion and shock resistance.
          Floats shall have sufficient chain length to reach from the splice box panel to the bottom
          of the wet well. Float switches shall be securely attached to a weighted stainless steel
          chain, in the location indicated in the drawings. Level switches shall be weighted to
          hold desired position in the wet well. The cord connection to the control shall be
          numbered 16-2, rated for 13-amps, and shall be type SJTO. To ensure optimum
          longevity contacts shall be rated for 20-amps at 115-VAC and shall be sealed in a
          heavy-duty glass enclosure. All pressure transducers shall have a separate 115-VAC
          power source. No junction boxes or cable splices of any kind will be allowed in the wet
          well.

      22. High Temperature Shutdown Circuit(s): The pump motor high temperature circuit shall
          provide terminals for connection of the leads from the temperature sensor provided in
          the pump motor windings. Upon a high temperature condition, the control power to the
          pump motor contact shall be disconnected, thus stopping the pump motor. The pump
          shall automatically restart when the pump motor temperature returns to an acceptable
          level.

      23. Ground Lug(s): Equipment ground lug(s) shall be provided for grounding the
          enclosure. The ground lug(s) shall be suitable for the service provided the enclosure is
          sized per table 250-95 of the NEC. In all cases, the enclosure must be adequately
          grounded per article 250 of the NEC, except for fiberglass enclosures where a
          grounding bus shall be provided.

      24. Terminals: Terminals shall be provided for connecting mercury float switch leads,
          temperature sensor, and seal fail sensor leads. Terminal blocks shall be rated for 600-
          volt use and accept a wire range of #22-8. All live parts shall have insulating walls on
          all sides of the lug. Blocks must be US recognized.

      25. Construction Standards: Subpanel shall be drilled and tapped to accept machine thread
          bolts (self-tapping screws are not acceptable). All control wiring shall be 16-AWG
          machine tool wire, Carol type 76512 or equal. All control wire shall be color-coded or
          numbered in accordance with applicable standards. Power (motor) shall be in
          accordance with the current NEC. Major groups of wires shall be contained in plastic
          wiring trough equal to Panduit type E.

2021 ED&CS                                    13-35                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                               Page 154 of 229


      26. Nameplates: All indicator lights, alarms, selector switches, pushbuttons and major
          control system components shall be identified with engraved phenolic plastic
          nameplates, white lettering on a black background.




2021 ED&CS                                 13-36                           Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                        Page 155 of 229


      27. Control Panel: The control panel shall include the following elements:

         a) Separate Manual Disconnect for each pump and grinder with 2-pole adjustable
            overload protection for each phase.

         b) Magnetic starter for each pump motor with all leg quick trip ambient compensated
            overload protection for each motor. Overloads are to have an auxiliary contact for
            auto dialer.

         c) Hand-Off-Auto selector switch for each pump.

         d) Automatic Electric Alternator with the ability to designate either Pump 1 or Pump
            2 as lead.

         e) Circuit Breaker for Control Circuit.

         f) Motor Thermal protection – Motor control circuit is to shut down if high
            temperature occurs. Manual resets to be provided.

         g) MPE LPC420-R_RM Level Control Mode.

         h) MPE Level Probe-Model-LLP-10.

         i) Backup float system with 3 floats as backup to the MPE Level Control.

         j) SCADA shall be provided to allow simulation of wet well on MPE Control.

         k) > 40-hp shall be ‘soft start’.

         l) Horn signaling.

         m) Control signaling.

         n) Seal failure light for each pump and contact closure for automatic dialer.

         o) High temperature light for each pump and contact closure for automatic dialer.

         p) Running light for each pump.

         q) Non-resettable, elapsed time meter for each pump, reading in tenths of hours.
            Capacity 100,000 hours.

         r) High level alarm light with Red Globe and contact closure for automatic dialer.

         s) All necessary internal wiring, relays, etc. to provide the operation as described.


2021 ED&CS                                   13-37                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 156 of 229


         t) All functions and internal wiring shall be labeled accordingly.

         u) Junction box shall be stainless and installed 4-feet above final grade to ensure water
            does not damage the internal wiring.

         v) Automatic Dialer/SCADA.

         w) AC Voltmeter.

   C. SCADA

      The Contractor shall furnish a complete SCADA system that in conformance with Table
      2.

      1. SCADA shall provide a remote silence for high level alarm conditions.

   D. GRINDERS

      1. General

         a) A wastewater grinder shall be provided at each pump station for the intended
            purpose of grinding solids in the flow influent to the pump station.

         b) The entire grinder unit and accessories necessary to provide a fully functional
            wastewater grinder system shall be supplied and warranted by a single
            manufacturer in conformance with Table 2.

         c) The wastewater grinder shall be placed in a separate manhole, or other influent
            structure prior to the wet well but still within the pump station site. The minimum
            diameter of the manhole shall be 5-feet. The grinder shall be removable without
            entering the structure by means of a stainless steel guide rail and stainless steel
            lifting chain with 4X6 lifting eyes at 10-foot intervals, starting at the top assembly.
            Another means of solids removal, such as a bar rack, must be provided when the
            grinder unit is out of service for extended periods.

         d) The wastewater grinder shall be electrically driven. The electric motor shall be a
            minimum 5-hp, 60-Hz, appropriately sized immersible motor. The motor shall be
            NEMA Design “B” and TEFC.

         e) The wastewater grinder unit will have a complete and separate control panel
            providing all settings, monitoring, and control options required, as well as the
            ability to send alarm signals back to the SCADA system.

         f) The equipment shall be installed as recommended by the manufacturer, and in
            compliance with all OSHA, local, state, and federal codes, and regulations.


2021 ED&CS                                   13-38                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 157 of 229


         g) The grinder unit power supply shall match the pump station power supply. Standard
            pump station power supply is 3 phase AC power.

         h) Identification. Each unit of equipment shall be provided with a corrosion resistant
            substantial metal nameplate, securely affixed in a conspicuous place. Nameplate
            information shall include equipment model number, serial number, manufacturer’s
            name, and location important performance data.

      2. Submittals

             Submittals shall include electrical diagrams, complete field wiring, terminal
             identifications, and control panel schematics. Electrical and control information
             shall be provided to allow coordination of field wiring to place the system in the
             desired operation. Submittals shall also include complete mounting and installation
             instructions (including size, length and spacing of all supports and anchor bolts)
             and painting instructions.

      3. Quality Assurance

         a) All equipment shall meet the requirements of applicable standards, including but
            not limited to: ASTM, AISI, NEMA, NEC, UL, and other State and Local codes.

         b) Grinder Control Panel

             1) Each grinder system shall be provided with a single control panel suitable for
                mounting on an electrical rack, building wall, or as a secondary panel located
                under the weather hood. The control panel shall include all power and circuits
                to provide the functional requirements.

             2) A programmable controller shall be included in the panel. The programmable
                logic controller shall talk directly with the SCADA PLC without a third-party
                communication device. Upon the grinder encountering a jam or overload
                condition, the controller shall stop the grinder and screen and reverse the
                direction of rotation to clear the obstruction. If the jam is cleared, the controller
                shall return to normal operation. If the jam condition persists, the controller
                shall repeat the reversing cycle up to eight additional times within 45-seconds
                (total of nine cycles) before signaling a grinder overload condition. Upon a
                grinder overload condition, the controller shall shut down the grinder and screen
                and activate an overload contact.

             3) If power failure occurs while the grinder is running, the grinder shall resume
                running when the power is restored. A 0-60 second adjustable time delay device
                shall be included in the control panel to select time delay until restart after
                power restoration. If the grinder is stopped due to an overload condition and a
                power failure occurs, the overload indicator shall reactivate when power is
                restored.

2021 ED&CS                                    13-39                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                                Page 158 of 229


             4) The control panel shall provide overcurrent protection. The overload relay shall
                be adjustable so that the range selected includes the full load amperage (FLA)
                rating and service factor. Grinder control panel shall be positioned either under
                the weather hood at the electrical riser or in the control building, if included. A
                standalone control panel will not be accepted.

             5) The control panel shall be equipped with a HOA selector switch. In the
                Off/Reset position, the motor shall not run. In the Hand position, the motor shall
                run continuously. In the Auto position, the grinder shall stop and start by remote
                control signal. The control panel shall include dry contacts for future addition
                by others of a remote maintained contact start/stop control signal when in Auto
                mode. The control panel shall not allow remote resetting of overload condition.
                Overload reset shall be accomplished by switching the HOA switch to the
                Off/Remote position.

             6) The controller shall indicate each of the following statuses with an indicator
                light on the panel face:

                  a). Power On
                  b). Grinder Overload
                  c). Motor Overload
                  d). Run

             7) Engraved phenolic laminated plastic identification nameplates, with white
                letters on the black background, shall be provided for each switch, indicator
                light, gauge, etc. on the control panel and system.

             8) The controller shall be properly rated 3 phase power, 60-Hz.

             9) A single enclosure shall house all power and control devices, relays, terminal
                blocks, and motor starter. Control and indicating devices shall be mounted in
                the front of the enclosure. Indicating lights shall be integral transformer type
                with low voltage long life 6-volt lamps. Lamps and selector switches shall be
                heavy-duty type. The control panel and all control devices shall be NEMA 4X.
                Enclosure shall be a NEMA 4X fiberglass reinforced polymer equipped with
                full hinged door, suitable for exterior mounting as shown on the drawings.

             10) A lockable disconnect switch shall be provided on the outside of the control
                 panel to disconnect power to the entire grinder system.

             11) One set of normally open (NO) contacts shall be provided in the control panel
                 for remote indication of each grinder “fail” and grinder “run” status. Grinder
                 overload, motor overload, oil over temperature, low oil level and oil pressure
                 alarms shall be ganged together to a common grinder “fail” alarm. The control
                 panel shall provide 120-VAC power to these alarm circuits for remote
                 indication at an existing SCADA system.

2021 ED&CS                                   13-40                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 159 of 229


             12) Contacts shall be provided for a future remote maintained contact emergency
                 stop pushbutton, to be provided by others. These contacts shall be jumpered.

             13) Motor starter shall be full voltage type with 120-volt operating coil and captive
                 terminal screws. Overload relay shall be mounted directly to the contactor. The
                 relay shall be sized to the motor FLA.

             14) Control panel shall incorporate a manual momentary or spring return reversing
                 switch for the grinder control.

             15) The Following spare parts shall be provided for each grinder as a minimum:

                   a). Three (3) of each type of fuse found in the system
                   b). Three (3) of each type of lamp bulb found in the system

             16) The motor controller shall have sufficient space within its enclosure for the
                 storage of the motor controller spare parts. Grinder spare parts shall be
                 packaged in suitable containers for long-term storage and shall bear labels
                 clearly designating the contents of each package and the equipment for which
                 they are intended.

   E. ODOR CONTROL

      1. Odor control measures shall be evaluated for all possible sources of odor related to
         wastewater pump systems. Source locations to be analyzed shall include, but not
         limited to, the wet well at the pump station, the force main discharge location, and force
         main ARVs. Odor control measures to be analyzed shall include, but not limited to,
         oxidizing agent added to the wastewater, odor masking agents added to the air,
         activated carbon treatment, biofilter treatment, and wet scrubber treatment. Odor
         Control measures shall be provided in accordance with Table 2.

      2. The chemical feed system, with variable dose controller, shall be capable of reducing
         the hydrogen sulfide concentration estimated to occur (with no treatment) in the pump
         station force main discharge at the receiving gravity sewer down to or below 0.1 mg/L
         using the chemical designated by the Town in the Pre-Design meeting.

      3. Solutions that include chemical feed must consider the feasibility of chemical delivery
         to the site, provide appropriate chemical storage facilities; including double walled
         containment, and must incorporate chemical feed systems as listed in Table 2. A
         containment system may also be required, in case of tank or piping failure.

      4. The Town reserves the right to require mechanical ventilation and treatment of exhaust
         from the wet well to address anticipated or existing proximity odors.

      5. Odor Control facilities not located on the pump station site (ARVs and discharge points
         for instance) shall be constructed in underground vaults or if necessary to be above

2021 ED&CS                                    13-41                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 160 of 229


         ground, shall be housed in a structure. Requirements for odor control facilities not
         located on the pump station site are in the Force Main section of these Standards.

   F. JIB CRANE/HOISTING EQUIPMENT

      1. A pedestal-mounted jib crane with an electric chain hoist and motorized trolley of 360-
         degree swing shall be provided. Electric hoist and trolley shall be furnished with any
         optional equipment and accessories as required for permanent operation in an exterior
         location. Jib crane shall be provided with a “doghouse” shelter at the mast end of the
         crane beam, to provide shelter for and protection of the parked motorized trolley and
         hoist from precipitation and extended exposure to sunlight. The minimum capacity of
         the hoisting system shall be equal to the combined weight of the pump, motor, chains,
         and cables, times a factor of 1.25. Jib crane must be tall enough to lift pumps so that
         there is a 4-feet minimum clearance from the bottom of the pump to the concrete slab.
         The motor and handheld control pendant shall have NEMA 4 ratings. Jib crane must
         be capable of accessing and lifting both pumps and must be certified to be in accordance
         with OSHA. Crane shall be equipped with chain buckets.

   G. GENERATORS

      1. General

         a) Backup power shall be provided by an automatically starting on-site generator
            controlled by an ATS. The generator shall be capable of supplying all necessary
            electrical power for complete operation of the pump station in the event of a failure
            of the electrical feed supplied by the local grid.

         b) The entire generator set, switchgear, and accessories necessary to provide a fully
            functional backup power system, shall be supplied and warranted by a single
            manufacturer in accordance with Table 2.

         c) Engine-generator unit, controls, and transfer switch shall be new; a standard
            product of a single manufacturer; and a packaged type of unit, full shop assembled,
            wired, and tested, requiring no field assembly of critical moving parts.

         d) The generator shall be sized to sequentially start and continuously run all pumps,
            motors, and other electrical equipment. Simultaneous starting of pumps is not
            required. The pump starting conditions (including delay timers, VFDs, soft starts,
            reduced voltage starters, etc.) should be verified for the site. The kW rating needed
            shall be calculated by a NCPE by the generator manufacturer.

         e) The voltage, amps, phase, etc., shall be coordinated with the design of the electrical
            equipment. Generators will be 3 phase, 60-Hz, and capable of multiple voltages
            through re-strapping.



2021 ED&CS                                   13-42                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 161 of 229


         f) The engine generator set will have a complete and separate control panel mounted
            inside the generator enclosure providing all settings, monitoring, and control
            options required, as well as the ability to send alarm signals back to the SCADA
            system.

         g) Each unit shall be provided with a corrosion resistant substantial metal nameplate,
            securely affixed in a conspicuous place. Nameplate information shall include
            equipment model number, serial number, manufacturer’s name and location, and
            important performance data.

         h) If the generator is elevated 30-inches or greater from the existing grade, a generator
            enclosure shall be furnished with an access platform with safety railing, metal
            grating, and stairs, to provide safe and convenient access to all parts of the generator
            and controls that require operator maintenance or inspection. The access platform
            shall be designed and located so that all generator maintenance can be performed
            without the need for ladders. The access platform shall be located within five
            vertical feet of the top of the uppermost maintenance access door/panel in the
            sidewalls of the generator enclosure.

         i) The engine-generator set supplier shall be an authorized dealer of the engine-
            generator set manufacture and shall be fully qualified and authorized to provide
            service and parts for the engine and generator 24-hours per day, 7-days per week
            from a location within a 100-mile radius of the installation site.

      2. Submittals

         a) The contractor shall submit complete shop drawings for assembly and installation,
            together with detailed specifications covering materials, drive unit, parts, devices,
            and accessories forming a part of the equipment. The data for each unit shall
            include, but shall not be limited to, the following:

             1) Manufacturer, model, and type: engine, alternator, enclosure, battery charger
                and battery, silencer, switchgear, transformer, etc.

             2) Listing of standard and operational accessories.

             3) Engine output horsepower and efficiency curves at specified conditions.

             4) Engine mechanical data including heat rejection, exhaust gas emission data
                (maximum values at loads of ¼, ½, ¾, and full for carbon monoxide (CO)
                (lb/hr), nitrogen oxides (NOx)(lb/hr), temperature (F), flow (ACFM),
                combustion air and ventilation air flows, and fuel consumption at specified
                conditions).




2021 ED&CS                                    13-43                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                               Page 162 of 229


             5) Generator electrical data including temperature and insulation data, winding
                pitch, cooling requirements, excitation ratings, voltage regulation, voltage
                regulator, efficiencies, waveform distortion and telephone influence factor.

             6) Ratings at specified conditions: engine (net horsepower), engine (maximum
                performance horsepower bare engine), generator kW at specified power factor,
                volts, amps.

             7) Overall dimensions (length, width, height) and net weight.

             8) Concrete pad recommendation (including size, length, and spacing of all
                necessary supports and anchor bolts) and layout/stub-up locations for electrical
                conduits.

             9) Wiring diagrams and schematics for the entire system, including the engine
                control panel, generator breaker, ATS, auxiliary transformer, and remote alarm
                indicators.

             10) Calculations or test results showing compliance with specified motor starting
                 and voltage dip requirements.

             11) Line circuit breaker rating.

             12) Control panel layout, identifying location of all instrumentation being supplied.

             13) Operation instructions.

             14) Letter from the engine-generator manufacturer confirming that the unit will
                 provide the specified minimum kW rating at the specified design conditions and
                 time duration.

             15) Battery sizing calculations.

             16) Battery charger sizing calculations.

             17) Maximum output short circuit kVA available.

             18) A certificate of compliance, when required.

             19) Manufacturers and dealer’s written warranty.

      3. Quality Control

         a) All equipment and materials shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
            the latest applicable requirements of these Standards, specifications and codes of


2021 ED&CS                                      13-44                           Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 163 of 229


             ANSI, ASTM, NEMA, IEEE, EEI, HEI, ISO, NFPA, SAE, NEC, UL508, and other
             such regularly published and accepted standards, as well as state and local codes.

      4. Generator Equipment

         a) Engine

             1) Engine shall be compression ignition type diesel powered. Diesel fueled
                generators shall be 4 stroke, liquid cooled, American made, with a minimum of
                130-hp, or equal. Any alternative to this requirement shall be approved by the
                Director.

             2) Engine shall operate at <1800 RPM.

             3) The engine will be equipped with an electronic governor to maintain 4% drop
                from no load to full load and +/-0.25% steady state. The electronic governor
                control shall be furnished as a complete governor and control package.

             4) Engine shall have dry type air cleaner, coolant, fuel filters, and oil filters with
                replaceable elements.

             5) Engine shall be liquid cooled and shall have a radiator, coolant pump,
                thermostat, and fan.

             6) Governor shall be mechanical flyweight type with a speed regulation of 5%
                maximum.

             7) Lubrication shall be by a positive displacement lube oil pump with positive
                pressure lubrication to all bearings. Full flow lube oil filter shall be provided.

             8) Starting system shall be 12-volts, 35-amps with solid state voltage regulator. A
                battery float charger shall be provided.

             9) An engine block heater shall be provided with control thermostat. The unit shall
                be 120-volts.

         b) Generator

             1) The synchronous generator shall be a single bearing, self-ventilated, drip-proof
                design in accordance with NEMA MG 1 and directly connected to the engine
                flywheel.

             2) Voltage regulation shall be within +/- 0.5% at steady state from no load to full
                load. The momentary voltage drop shall not exceed the specified percent
                without starter coils dropping out or stalling the engine at any time when
                applying or starting the specified loads. Recovery to stable operation shall occur

2021 ED&CS                                   13-45                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 164 of 229


                 within 2-seconds. Unit shall be capable of adjusting voltage under varying load
                 conditions within 16-milliseconds.

             3) The voltage regulator shall be a totally solid state design, and include electronic
                voltage buildup, volts per hertz regulation, overexcitation protection, shall limit
                voltage overshoot on startup, and shall be environmentally sealed.

             4) The insulation material shall meet NEMA standards for Class H insulation and
                be fungus resistant.

             5) The generator shall be a self-excited generator type. The excitation system shall
                be of brushless construction.

             6) The generator shall be supplied with a 240-volt single phase anti-condensation
                heater protected by a circuit breaker inside the main control panel. When the
                generator set is not running the heater is automatically connected to the AC
                supply through a power relay mounted in the control panel. Upon receiving a
                start signal the AC supply is automatically disconnected by the power relay and
                automatically reconnected when the start signal is removed, and the engine has
                stopped. A temperature set point shall determine the start and stop signal.

         c) Fuel System

             1) Each engine-generator unit shall be furnished with a complete fuel system,
                including an integral fuel tank, fuel filter, fuel shut off valve, air filter, pressure
                regulator (if applicable), and piping along with all other accessories as required
                for proper operation. All items shall be suitable for the specified fuel and
                located inside the enclosure above the base plate and serviceable from inside
                the enclosure. The fuel system shall conform to NFPA 58.

             2) The fuel tank shall have a capacity of at least 250-gallons to provide fuel for a
                minimum run time of 72 continuous hours at 100% prime load.

             3) The fuel tank shall be double walled with a rupture basin of 110% capacity. It
                shall be pressure tested for leaks prior to shipment and have all necessary
                venting per US142 standards. A locking fill cap, a mechanical reading fuel level
                gage, low fuel level alarm contact, and fuel tank rupture alarm contact shall be
                provided. The fuel system shall require a polishing/filtration system for larger
                units to be determined by the Town. Any drain lines associated with the
                generator need to include brass plugs. Plastic plugs will not be accepted.

             4) Fuel piping shall be designed for a working pressure of 250-psi. Sizing shall be
                in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations, but not less than ½-
                inch in diameter.



2021 ED&CS                                     13-46                                Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                                  Page 165 of 229


             5) A vapor withdrawal system shall be installed, to include a manual shut-off valve
                at the tank(s), a vaporizer, dry fuel filter, line service regulator, solenoid fuel
                shut-off valve to pen when engine runs, flexible pipe connection at the engine,
                and a gas flow regulator.

             6) An 80% charge of propane in the propane storage tank shall be provided at the
                time of final acceptance.

             7) Complete charges of antifreeze and oil shall be provided.

         d) Lubrication

             1) Equipment shall be adequately lubricated by systems which require attention
                no more frequently than weekly during continuous operation. Lubrication
                systems shall not require attention during startup or shutdown and shall not
                waste lubricants.

             2) Lubricants shall be provided in sufficient quantities to fill all lubricant
                reservoirs and to replace all consumption during testing, startup, and operation
                prior to acceptance of equipment. Unless otherwise specified or permitted, the
                use of synthetic lubricants will not be acceptable.

             3) Lubrication facilities shall be convenient and accessible. Oil drains and fill
                openings shall be easily accessible from the normal operating area or platform.
                Drains shall allow for convenient collection of waste oil in containers from the
                normal operating area or platform without removing the unit from its normal
                installed position.

         e) Alternator

             1) Alternators shall be revolving, broad range, brushless type designed for
                minimum resistance, low voltage, waveform distortion, and maximum
                efficiency. Rotor shall be dynamically balanced permanently aligned to engine
                by flexible disc coupling. Maximum allowable voltage dip shall be 30%.

             2) Exciter shall be 3 phase, full wave rectified with silicon diodes mounted on a
                common motor shafted for maximum motor starting.

             3) Voltage regulator shall be solid state with silicon-controlled rectifiers with
                phase-controlled sensing circuits.

             4) Temperature rise at rated load shall be within limits for Class F insulation in
                accordance with NEMA MG 1-22.40.

             5) Insulation system shall be Class F in accordance with NEMA MG1-1.65. Rotor
                shall be vacuum impregnated with 100% solid epoxy resin for complete

2021 ED&CS                                   13-47                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 166 of 229


                environmental protection. Stator shall be impregnated twice with varnish
                conforming to MIL-1-24092, Type M, Class 155.

             6) Output circuit breaker shall be 3-pole, rated at 145% of alternator full load
                current.

         f) Exhaust System

             1) Each engine-generator unit shall be furnished with a complete exhaust system
                including an exhaust silencer, exhaust piping, expansion joints, and accessories
                required for a complete operating system.

             2) A rain cap shall be provided to prevent rain from entering the exhaust pipe. The
                rain cap shall open from exhaust pressure and shall close when exhaust flow
                stops. The cap shall be stainless steel counter balancing with vertical discharge.

         g) Starting System

             1) Each engine-generator unit shall be furnished with a complete electric motor
                start system including starting motors, maintenance free starting batteries,
                battery pack with rack, cables, and battery charger.

             2) The engine starter shall be a 12-volt DC or 24-volt DC, solenoid shaft, electric
                starting system with positive engagement.

             3) The batteries shall be of high rate, diesel starting, lead acid type. The batteries
                shall be sized for five 10-second cranks with battery and engine oil temperature
                of 30 degrees F and a battery end voltage of 70% of system voltage.

             4) The battery charger shall be current limiting and shall be furnished to
                automatically recharge the batteries. The charger shall be dual charge rate with
                automatic switching to the boost rate when required. Output voltage regulation
                shall not exceed 1%. The charger shall include temperature compensation,
                NEMA 2 corrosion resistant enclosure, overload protection, silicon diode full
                wave rectifiers, voltage surge suppressor, DC ammeter, DC voltmeter, and
                fused AC input, on/off switch, remote annunciation of loss of AC power, low
                battery voltage, and high battery voltage, AC input and DC output circuit
                breakers or fuses, floating voltage equalization, equalizing timer. AC input
                voltage shall be 120-volts or 240-volts, single phase.

             5) The battery charger shall have a DC output suitable to supply power to all
                continuous loads and to recharge the batteries from a full discharge state to
                normal operating voltage within 8-hours.




2021 ED&CS                                   13-48                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 167 of 229


             6) The batteries, battery rack, and battery charger shall be located within the
                engine-generator enclosure. The battery rack frame shall be constructed of
                corrosion resistant material.

             7) The engine-generator shall automatically supply power to the battery charger
                when it is operating, and utility power is not available.

         h) Cooling System

             1) Engine-generator unit shall be cooled with unit mounted radiator cooling
                system complete with radiator, expansion tank, water pump, belt driven fan, fan
                guard, thermostatic control, high water temperature cutout, and all accessories
                required for proper operation. The radiator shall be sized to provide sufficient
                capacity for cooling of the engine and all accessories at an ambient temperature
                of 125 degrees F, considering the enclosure static pressure restriction. The fan
                shall draw air over the engine and discharge through the radiator.

             2) The cooling system shall be filled with a permanent antifreeze mixture of
                ethylene glycol type with rust inhibitor.

             3) The engine generator unit shall have a 240-volt coolant heater protected by a
                safeguard breaker inside the main control panel. A controller shall be included
                to regulate the output temperature to within safe limits. When the generator set
                is not running, the heater is automatically connected to the AC supply through
                a power relay mounted in the control panel. Upon receiving a start signal, the
                AC supply is automatically disconnected by the power relay and automatically
                reconnected when the start signal is removed and the engine has stopped.

         i) Enclosure

             1) The engine-generator unit, fuel system, control panel, battery rack, battery
                charger, power panel, exhaust silencer, and other ancillary equipment, shall be
                housed in a weatherproof enclosure.

             2) The enclosure shall consist of a roof, side walls, and end walls, and shall be
                weatherproofed and sufficiently sealed to prevent the entry of rodents.

             3) The enclosure shall be constructed of 12 gage or heavier metal panels that can
                be easily removed, or doors.

             4) Doors shall be lockable with stainless steel hardware for access to the engine
                generator, controls, and accessories. Doors shall also provide easy accessibility
                for maintenance. Doors shall have lock arm to prevent swinging when open.

             5) The enclosure shall be provided prewired, requiring only external connection
                to the power panel and ATS.

2021 ED&CS                                  13-49                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 168 of 229


             6) Lube oil and coolant drains shall be extended to the exterior of the enclosure
                and terminated with drain valves.

             7) All moving parts inside of enclosure, including cooling fan and charging
                alternator, shall be fully guarded to prevent injury.

             8) Lifting points shall be provided on base frame suitable for lifting combined
                weight of base tank, engine generator unit, and enclosure.

             9) An LED floodlight shall be provided with a switch mounted on the generator
                control panel.

         j) Control System

             1) Provide a generator set mounted control panel for complete control and
                monitoring of the engine and generator set functions. Critical components shall
                be environmentally sealed to protect against failure from moisture and dirt.
                Components shall be housed in a NEMA 1/IP22 enclosure with hinged door
                secured with a twist lock hatch. The panel door will have a voltage shunt switch.
                The panel itself shall be mounted on a separate support stand and shall be
                mounted inside the enclosure such that the face of the panel faces outward and
                is isolated from vibrations of the engine/generator arrangement. Panel/breaker
                arrangements shall be mounted in such a manner as to not restrict access to the
                generator, engine, or other parts of the system that need periodic maintenance
                or repair.

             2) The control panel shall be automatic and safety type and shall include at least
                all items required by NFPS 110 Level 1.

             3) Panel shall include the following I&C (at a minimum): AC voltmeter, AC
                ammeter, frequency/tachometer, engine running hours, coolant temperature
                gauge, lube oil pressure gauge, battery condition voltmeter, run/off/auto switch,
                emergency stop push button, lamp test pushbutton, 7 position voltmeter phase
                selector switch, 4 position ammeter phase selector switch, 3 attempt start timer,
                cool down timer, remote start/stop terminals for 2 wire starting from ATS,
                charge rate ammeter, and exciter circuit breaker with manual reset.

             4) Panel shall include the following emergency shutdowns with individual
                warning lamps (at a minimum): fail to start, high coolant temperature, low lube
                oil pressure, overspeed, overcrank protection, and alarm contact for auto dialer
                (generator fail signal).

             5) Panel shall include the following alarms with individual warning lamps (at a
                minimum): approaching low oil pressure, approaching high engine temperature,
                low/high battery voltage, battery charger failure, control switch not in auto
                mode.

2021 ED&CS                                  13-50                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 169 of 229


             6) Panel shall have at least 2 spare shutdown channels and 1 spare alarm channel
                and 4 additional fault channels for shutdown or alarm programming.

             7) Panel shall have the ability to send up to 8 channels back to existing SCADA
                system at the pump station.

             8) Engine generator unit shall be provided with a fuel level gauge indicating
                relative fuel tank level in % values.

             9) The panel shall be provided with a switched light that illuminates the panel face.

             10) The panel shall include a stainless-steel canopy with LED hood lights.

         k) Circuit Breaker

             Provide a generator mounted, molded case or insulated case construction, UL rated,
             3 pole, and circuit breaker, sized as required. Breaker shall utilize a thermal
             magnetic trip. Breaker shall be housed in a steel NEMA 1 enclosure mounted on a
             separate support stand vibration isolated from the engine/generator arrangement.
             Bus bars, sized for the cable type shown on drawing, shall be supplied on the load
             side of breaker.

         l) Receptacles

             The engine generator will be supplied with two 120-volt, 20-amp duplex
             receptacles and two 120-volt, 20-amp twist lock receptacles. Receptacles will have
             individual circuit breakers and will be placed inside the enclosure or will have
             weatherproof covers.

         m) Shop Painting

             1) All steel and iron surfaces shall be protected by suitable coatings applied in the
                shop. Surfaces which will be inaccessible after assembly shall be protected for
                the life of the equipment. Coatings shall be suitable for the environment where
                the equipment is installed. Exposed surfaces shall be finished, thoroughly
                cleaned, and filled as necessary to provide a smooth, uniform base for painting.
                Electric motors, engine, alternator, enclosure, piping, and valves shall be shop
                primed and finish painted prior to shipment to the site.

             2) Stainless steel, nonferrous, and nonmetallic surfaces shall not be painted.

         n) Power Transformer

             An externally mounted power transformer shall be supplied to provide required
             240-volt single phase power to the coolant heater and anti-condensation heater for


2021 ED&CS                                   13-51                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 170 of 229


             each engine generator unit. The amp load shall be calculated by a NCPE or the
             generator manufacturer.

   H. AUTOMATIC TRANSFER SWITCH

      1. An automatic transfer switch (ATS) shall be provided on all pump stations for
         switching power to the onsite backup generator when normal grid power fails. The ATS
         shall be provided by the same manufacturer as the generator and included under the
         same warranty as the generator.

      2. General

         a) The ATS shall be rated for the voltage and ampacity as shown on the plans and
            shall have 600-volt insulation on all parts in accordance with NEMA standards.

         b) The current rating shall be a continuous rating when the switch is installed in an
            unventilated enclosure and shall conform to NEMA temperature rise standards.
            Designs which require cabinet ventilation are unacceptable and do not meet these
            Standards.

         c) The unit shall be rated based on all classes of loads, i.e., resistive, tungsten, ballast,
            and inductive load.

         d) Switches rated <400-amps shall be UL listed for 100% tungsten lamp load.

         e) As a precondition for approval, all transfer switches complete with accessories shall
            be listed by Underwriters Laboratories, under Standard UL 1008 (ATS) and
            approved for use on emergency systems.

         f) The withstand current capacity of the main contacts shall not be less than 20 times
            the continuous duty rating when coordinated with any molded case circuit breaker
            established by certified test data.

         g) Temperature rise tests in accordance with UL 1008 shall have been conducted after
            the overload and endurance tests to confirm the ability of the units to carry their
            rated currents within the allowable temperature limits.

         h) Transfer switches shall comply with the applicable standards of UL, ANSI, NFPA,
            IEEE, NEMA, IEC and all applicable federal, state, and local standards.

         i) The transfer switches shall be supplied with a microprocessor-based control panel
            as detailed further in these Standards.

         j) The transfer switch shall be capable of detecting if the source switch was successful
            and if the pump station is receiving power. It shall also be capable of transmitting


2021 ED&CS                                    13-52                                Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                                 Page 171 of 229


             a failure signal if it was not successful in switching sources and the pump station is
             not receiving power.

      3. Sequence of Operation

         a) The ATS shall incorporate adjustable 3 phase under-voltage sensing of the normal
            source.

         b) When the voltage of any phase of the normal source is reduced to 80% of the
            nominal voltage, for a period of 0-10 seconds (programmable) a pilot contact shall
            close to initiate starting of the engine generator.

         c) When the emergency source has reached a voltage value within 10% of the normal
            voltage and achieved frequency within 5% of the rated value, the load shall be
            transferred to the emergency source after a programmable time delay.

         d) When the normal source has been restored to not less than 90% of rated voltage on
            all phases, the load shall be re-transferred to the normal source after a time delay of
            0-30-minutes (programmable). The generator shall run unloaded for 5-minutes
            (programmable) and then automatically shut down. The generator shall be ready
            for automatic operation upon the next failure of the normal source.

         e) If the engine generator should fail while carrying the load, retransfer to the normal
            source shall be made instantaneously upon restoration of proper voltage (90%) on
            the normal source.

         f) The transfer switch shall be equipped with a microprocessor-based control panel.
            The control panel shall perform the operational display functions of the transfer
            switch. The display functions of the control panel shall include ATS position and
            source availability.

         g) The front panel display shall include indicators for timing functions, capability to
            bypass the TD on transfer or retransfer, and an ATS test switch and afford on-board
            diagnostic capability.

         h) The control panel shall be provided with calibrated pots (accessible only by first
            opening the lockable cabinet door) to set time delays, voltage, and frequency
            sensors. Designs which make use of DIP switches to render such adjustments are
            unacceptable.

         i) The control panel shall be opto-isolated from its inputs to reduce susceptibility to
            electrical noise and provided with the following inherent control functions and
            capabilities:

             1) An LED display for continuous monitoring of the ATS functions.


2021 ED&CS                                   13-53                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 172 of 229


             2) Built-in diagnostic display.

             3) Capability to support external communication and network interface through an
                optional RS 485 port.

             4) Mechanical test switch to simulate a normal source failure.

             5) Time delay to override momentary normal source failure prior to engine start.
                Field programmable 0-10-minutes (continuously adjustable via a calibrated
                potentiometer factory set at 3-minutes).

             6) Time delay on retransfer to normal source, continuously adjustable 0-30-
                minutes, factory set at 15-minutes. If the emergency source fails during the
                retransfer time delay, the transfer switch controls shall automatically bypass the
                time delay and immediately retransfer to the normal position.

             7) Time delay on transfer to emergency, continuously adjustable 0-15-minutes,
                factory set at 1-minute.

             8) An in-phase monitor shall be provided. The monitor shall compare the phase
                angle difference between the normal and emergency sources and be
                programmed to anticipate the zero-crossing point to minimize switching
                transients.

             9) An interval-type automatic clock exerciser shall be incorporated within the
                microprocessor.

             10) Provide a momentary pushbutton to bypass the time delays on transfer and
                 retransfer.

      4. Construction and Performance

         a) The ATS shall be of double throw construction operated by a reliable electrical
            mechanism momentarily energized. There shall be a direct mechanical coupling to
            facilitate transfer in 6 cycles or less.

         b) The normal and emergency contacts shall be mechanically interlocked such that
            failure of any coil or disarrangement of any part shall not permit a neutral position.

         c) For switches installed in systems having ground fault protective devices, and/or
            wired to be designated a separately derived system by the NEC, a 4th pole shall be
            provided. This additional pole shall isolate the normal and emergency neutrals. The
            neutral pole shall have the same withstand and operational ratings as the other poles
            and shall be arranged to break last and make first to minimize neutral switching
            transients. Add-on or accessory poles that are not of identical construction and
            withstand capability are not acceptable.

2021 ED&CS                                     13-54                            Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 173 of 229


         d) The contact structure shall consist of a main current carrying contact, which is a
            silver alloy with a minimum of 50% silver content. The current carrying contacts
            shall be protected by silver tungsten arcing contacts on all sizes above 400-amps.

         e) The transfer switch manufacturer shall submit test data for each size switch,
            showing it can withstand fault currents of the magnitude and the duration necessary
            to maintain the system integrity. Minimum UL listed withstand and close into fault
            ratings shall be as follows:

                             Table 6: Any molded case breaker
                            Size (amps)         (RMS Symmetrical)
                             Up to 200                   10,000
                              201-260                    35,000
                              261-400                    35,000
                             401-1200                    50,000
                             1201-4000                  100,000

                          Table 7: Specific coordinated breakers
                             Size (amps)        (RMS Symmetrical)
                              Up to 150                 30,000
                               151-260                  42,000
                               261-400                  50,000
                               401-800                  65,000
                              801-1200                  85,000
                              1201-4000                100,000

                               Table 8: Current limiting fuse
                           Size (amps)          (RMS Symmetrical)
                            Up to 4000                  200,000
                 *All values 480 volt, RMS symmetrical, less than 20% power factor.

         f) A dielectric test at the conclusion of the closing tests shall be performed.

         g) The ATS manufacturer shall certify sufficient arc interrupting capabilities for 50
            cycles of operation between a normal and emergency source that are 120-degrees
            out of phase at 480-volts, 600% of the rated current at 0.50 power factor. This


2021 ED&CS                                     13-55                                  Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                                   Page 174 of 229


             certification is to ensure that there will be no current flow between the two isolated
             sources during switching.

         h) All relays shall be continuous duty industrial type with wiping contacts. Customer
            interface contacts shall be rated 10-amps minimum. Coils, fuses, relays, timers, and
            accessories shall be readily front accessible. The control panel and power section
            shall be interconnected with a harness and keyed disconnect plugs for maintenance.

         i) Main and arcing contacts shall be visible without major disassembly to facilitate
            inspection and maintenance.

         j) A manual handle shall be provided for maintenance purposes with the switch de-
            energized. An operator disconnect switch shall be provided to defeat automatic
            operation during maintenance, inspection, or manual operation.

         k) The switch shall be mounted in a NEMA 3R enclosure unless otherwise indicated
            on the plans.

         l) Switches composed of molded case breakers, contactors or components thereof not
            specifically designed as an ATS will not be acceptable.


13.04 PUMP STATION TESTING AND TRAINING

   A. TESTING

      1. General

         a) The Contractor shall furnish all materials, labor, and equipment to perform all
            testing and start up services. Water for testing purposes may be obtained from the
            Town. The Contractor shall reimburse the Town for all water used at inside Town
            Utility Rates.

         b) All water or wastewater used during testing of the pump station, force main, or any
            of the systems described in this section, must be returned to the Town after proper
            coordination with the Town.

         c) Before the operational tests are conducted, the required copies of the O&M
            Manuals shall be delivered to the Town.

         d) The Town reserves the right to require further testing, as necessary, to assure that
            all components and infrastructure are performing in accordance with the
            manufacturer's recommendations and these Standards. All testing, repairs and/or
            readjustments, and necessary re-testing, shall be at no additional cost to the Town.



2021 ED&CS                                   13-56                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 175 of 229


         e) All on-site testing and/or installation verification shall be performed in the presence
            of the NCPE and representatives authorized by the Town.

         f) All testing, installation verification, and training shall be performed in the presence
            of, or by an experienced, competent, and authorized manufacturer’s representative.

         g) Factory testing shall consist of testing all operating functions of the equipment
            under varying operating conditions to assure that it will perform as specified. Any
            specific testing that may be required is discussed under the individual equipment
            items below. Results of factory testing shall be presented to the Town prior to
            delivery.

         h) Installation Verification shall consist of a visit to the site by a manufacturer’s
            representative to inspect, check, adjust, and approve the equipment installation. The
            manufacturer’s representative shall certify that the equipment has been properly
            installed and lubricated, is in accurate alignment, and is free from any undue stress
            imposed by connecting piping or anchor bolts. Any specific verification
            requirements are discussed under the individual equipment items below. Results of
            the installation verification shall be presented to the Town prior to start-up of the
            equipment.

         i) On-site Testing shall consist of all manual and automatic operating functions under
            various operating conditions, including full load conditions. The equipment shall
            also be tested under adverse or emergency conditions. All alarms and remote
            signals shall also be tested. Any specific testing is discussed under the individual
            equipment items. Results of the on-site testing shall be presented to the Town prior
            to final acceptance.

         j) All functions and systems, even those not specifically listed below, shall be tested
            to ensure proper operation under normal and emergency situations.

         k) All defective equipment or malfunctioning systems shall be replaced or corrected,
            and the full system placed in a fully operational condition to the satisfaction of the
            Town.

         l) Results of all factory testing, installation certifications, and on-site operational
            testing shall be provided to the Town in the final construction documents.

      2. Pump Testing

         a) Each pump shall be tested at the factory for capacity, power requirements, and
            efficiency at specified rated head, shutoff head, operating head extremes, and at as
            many other points as necessary for accurate performance curve plotting. All tests
            and test reports shall conform to the requirements and recommendations of the
            Hydraulic Institute Standards (HIS). Acceptance testing shall be Level A, with no
            minus tolerance or margin allowed. The test result report shall include data and test

2021 ED&CS                                   13-57                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 176 of 229


             information as stipulated in the HIS, copies of the test log originals, test reading to
             curve conversion equations, and certified performance curves. The curves shall
             include head, bhp (kW), pump efficiency, and shop test NPSH available, plotted
             against capacity. The curves shall be easily read and plotted to scales consistent
             with performance requirements. All test points shall be clearly shown.

         b) All pumps shall receive installation verification.

         c) On-site testing shall be performed to the maximum extent possible (flow
            availability could limit the range of testing conditions).

      3. Grinder Testing

         a) Each grinder unit shall be factory tested.

         b) Each grinder unit shall receive installation verification.

         c) Each grinder unit shall receive on-site testing.

      4. Generator Testing

         a) Each engine generator set shall be fully assembled with its control panel and factory
            tested to demonstrate that the equipment conforms to specified requirements for
            load capacity. The tests shall consist of repeated starts and stops operation under a
            load bank at specified capacity for minimum of 4 continuous hours, and tests to
            demonstrate that each safety shutdown device is working properly.

         b) Each engine generator set shall receive installation verification.

         c) Each engine-generator set shall receive on-site testing to demonstrate that the
            equipment conforms to specified requirements for load capacity and starting duty.
            The complete system (engine, generator, control panel, and ATS) shall be field
            tested together by the manufacturer or manufacturer’s representative as a complete
            system to assure compatibility. A resistive load bank with temporary connections
            shall be provided to complete the field testing. Each unit shall be mechanically
            checked for proper operation. Each alarm and safety shutdown shall be checked by
            artificially simulating an alarm condition. The testing shall consist of repeated starts
            and stops, a “cold start”, normal operation under full load conditions at the specified
            power rating for a minimum of 4 continuous hours, a one-step rated load pickup
            test in accordance with NFPA 110. The following items shall be measured,
            recorded, and submitted in a field test report: outdoor ambient temperature,
            barometric pressure, kW output, engine speed (RPM), engine jacket water
            temperature, engine oil pressure, start time, completion time. Test reports shall
            verify that the specified tests have been performed and shall state results.



2021 ED&CS                                    13-58                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                               Page 177 of 229


      5. ATS Testing

         a) Each ATS shall receive field verification.

         b) Each ATS shall receive on-site testing in conjunction with the engine generator. At
            a minimum, the main power supply from the commercial power grid shall be cut
            and the switch automatically properly transfers the power feed to the standby
            generator.

      6. Control System Testing

         a) All electrical, I&C, and telemetry systems shall receive on-site testing to ensure
            complete operation. At a minimum the testing shall include the following:

             1) Pump automatic control and operation

             2) Level-sensing equipment operation

             3) Alarm and telemetry system automatic operation

             4) Backup power generation automatic control and operation

             5) Vibration testing of all rotating equipment

      7. Structure Testing

         a) Wet wells and other structures shall be inspected and tested for watertightness.
            Structures shall be thoroughly cleared of dirt, mud, gravel, and other foreign debris
            prior to testing.

         b) The watertightness test shall be performed in accordance with ACI 350.1R “Testing
            Reinforced Concrete Structures for Watertightness”. If the structure is a small
            diameter precast manhole, a vacuum test in accordance with ASTM C1244
            “Standard Test Method for Concrete Sewer Manholes by Negative Test Pressure
            (Vacuum) Test” may be used in lieu of the hydrostatic test.

         c) Watertightness testing shall not commence until the structure is fully assembled
            and backfilled.

         d) Any structure that fails to meet the requirements of the watertightness test shall be
            inspected, made watertight, and retested until the structure passes.

   B. OPERATOR TRAINING

      1. Suppliers of major equipment packages shall provide training to the Town as to the
         proper operation and maintenance of their equipment.

2021 ED&CS                                  13-59                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 178 of 229


      2. Training shall be performed by an experienced, competent, and authorized
         manufacturer’s representative.

      3. Training shall be at no additional cost to the Town.

      4. Training shall be provided for, but not limited to, the equipment listed in the table
         below. The training times presented below for O&M are the minimum required.
         Complicated systems can require more than the minimum requirements.

                              Table 9: Operator Training
                                         Operation Training             Maintenance
                Equipment System
                                                (hours)                Training (hours)
        Pumps and Pump Control Systems                   1                      2
                  Grinder System                         1                      2
             Engine Generator and ATS                    1                      2
               Odor Control Systems                      1                      2
                     SCADA                               1                      1

      5. Operational training shall include, but not be limited to, the following procedures or
         information: normal startup of the unit, normal shutdown of the unit, emergency
         shutdown of the unit, normal operation of the unit (typical temperature, pressures,
         signals, RPM, etc., for gauges and instruments which are displayed on the panel), a
         presentation of all operational features (alternative run modes, bypasses, other features
         not typically used in day-to-day operation, etc.), presentation of all alarm signals, etc.

      6. Maintenance training shall include, but not be limited to, the following procedures or
         information: standard lubrication procedures and schedules, removal and replacement
         of equipment, disassembly and re-assembly, replacement of wear parts or common
         replacement parts, standard troubleshooting procedures, etc.

      7. Simplified operation instructions shall be submitted for review in accordance with the
         submittals section. When the review is complete, the instruction sheets shall be printed
         on heavy paper or cardboard stock and laminated with clear plastic. Two copies of the
         laminated instructions shall be furnished with the unit. The reserve copy shall be
         delivered to the Town. The instructions specified here are in addition to the required
         O&M manuals.




2021 ED&CS                                    13-60                                 Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                                 Page 179 of 229


13.05 WASTEWATER FORCE MAINS

   A. GENERAL

      1. All aspects of force mains design shall, at a minimum, meet the requirements of the
         latest version of the:

         a) NCDEQ Minimum Design Criteria for the (Fast-Track) Permitting of Pump
            Stations and Force Mains (Minimum Design Criteria),

         b) Alternative Design Criteria for Minimum Separation for Sewer Systems to
            Wetlands,

         c) 15A NCAC 02T,

         d) NC Building Code,

         e) OSHA regulations, and

         f) Town Standards.

             Town Standards identify minimum equipment and construction requirements for
             force mains to be owned and operated by the Town. This section does not address
             every aspect of force main design; it is the NCPE’s responsibility to supplement
             these requirements as necessary to produce a complete set of plans and
             specifications. Requirements in the Town Standards that are more restrictive or
             exceed the requirements of the Minimum Design Criteria are required by the Town.

      2. All aspects of the design of force mains and associated facilities shall be submitted for
         review and approval.

      3. Wastewater force main interconnections shall be prohibited. All wastewater force
         mains shall extend to the nearest gravity sewer or pump station wet well that has
         sufficient, long- term capacity.

      4. Private force mains will require an exception from these Standards. A Basis of Design
         Report, signed and sealed by a NCPE, should be submitted for review prior to a
         determination by the Director. Private force main design is not covered by these
         Standards, and the applicant should look for guidance from other appropriate agencies,
         such as NCDEQ, NC Plumbing Code, etc. Documentation of future force main
         maintenance shall be required.

   B. DESIGN

      1. All force mains shall be located within dedicated ROW of Town roads, outside of the
         ROW on NCDOT roads, or within dedicated utility easements. When wastewater force

2021 ED&CS                                   13-61                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                             Page 180 of 229


          mains are constructed adjacent to gravity sewer mains or for construction of parallel
          wastewater force mains, the horizontal clearance shall be a minimum 10-feet from pipe
          edge to pipe edge. Clearances for pipelines greater than 10-feet depth shall be designed
          by the NCPE and approved by the Town. Easement widths outlined below shall be
          widened by at least the clearance between the pipelines when constructing a shared
          utility corridor. Within road ROW, a utility easement, or Town owned property, there
          shall be no permanent structures, equipment, retaining walls, embankments,
          impoundments, or other elements that would inhibit utility maintenance operations,
          unless approved by the Director.

      2. All force mains shall be installed outside of buffers whenever practical. Sewer main
         shall be installed outside of all flood plains, unless No Practical Alternative is available
         and prior approval is obtained from the Director.

      3. The minimum wastewater force main size shall be 4-inches in diameter, unless
         otherwise allowed by the Director.

      4. Dedicated easements for force mains and appurtenances shall be recorded as “Town of
         Holly Springs Public Utility Easement”. Town force main easements shall contain only
         Town utilities unless otherwise approved by an encroachment agreement.

                     Table 10: Standard Easement Width for Sewer Force Mains
             Pipe Depth*           Permanent Easement Width                     Town Owned ROW
               <8-feet                           20-feet                               Allowed
              8-15-feet                          30-feet                    Requires Director approval
              15-20-feet                         40-feet                             Not Allowed
              >20-feet              As Specified by the Director                     Not Allowed
      *Depth of the sewer main shall be measured from the top of the pipe to the final grade or road subgrade at
      the deepest point between manholes.

      5. Force Main Odor Control Systems: Force main odor control shall be included in the
         design plans for any proposed force main at discharge locations, intermediate air
         release locations and otherwise as directed by the Town. ARVs located in isolated areas
         may be approved without odor control systems, at the discretion of the Director. The
         suggested odor control technology shall be designed by the NCPE to achieve 95% or
         greater hydrogen sulfide removal. All systems, including those utilizing active carbon,
         shall be manufactured specifically for addressing hydrogen sulfide gas. Forced air
         systems should be avoided due to the need to include provisions for electrical power to
         the odor control system.

          Odor control systems shall be provided with sufficient easement area to accommodate
          long term maintenance. The maintenance easement for odor control systems shall be


2021 ED&CS                                         13-62                                    Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                                          Page 181 of 229


         sized on site specific conditions and provide sufficient area for operations, such as
         refilling media/chemicals, replacing equipment, etc.

      6. Sewer force mains shall not discharge directly into existing gravity sewer lines. Sewer
         force mains shall typically discharge into a receiving manhole that has been epoxy
         coated. The receiving manhole shall be provided in the typical eccentric tapered design
         at minimum 4-foot diameter, and a diameter capable of receiving flow without
         exceeding 50% surcharge conditions in the existing gravity sewer. The invert elevation
         of the force main shall be one-tenth of a foot higher than the gravity sewer discharge
         invert elevation. Force mains shall be as close as possible to 180-degrees from the outlet
         pipe. Provide a smooth channel from force main to gravity sewer main. Force main
         installations greater than 10-feet will require approval by the Director.

      7. Drop connections into force main receiver manholes are discouraged and require
         approval by the Director.

      8. Force main design shall facilitate cleaning and inspection. The use of 90-degree bends
         is prohibited.

      9. Force mains shall be constructed with a pigging/bypass connection located within 50-
         feet of the pump station valve vault.

      10. Force main minimum design velocity shall >2.5 ft/s throughout the length of the force
          main. As a design preference, force main systems operating at higher flows shall reach
          velocities of 3-5 ft/s to resuspend any settled solids.

      11. Force mains shall be designed and sized to effectively convey the ultimate peak flows
          from the pump station to the discharge point.

      12. The force main shall be routed to minimize the number of combination ARVs, to the
          extent possible. Combination ARVs rated for use with raw wastewater shall be installed
          at high points or runs exceeding 3000-feet, on all force mains. A high point shall be
          determined as any location where the vertical separation between the adjacent low point
          and high point in the force main >10 vertical feet.

      13. Restraint:

         a) General: All pipes, valves, and fittings within the pump station site shall be
            restrained. Pipe joints outside of the pump station shall also be restrained an
            adequate length away from valves and fittings in accordance with AWWA manual
            M41 (or the latest edition of Thrust Restraint Design for DIP, as published by the
            Ductile Iron Pipe Research Association). In all cases, there must be a pipe restraint
            plan prepared by the NCPE, showing the method of restraint to be used and the
            length of pipe to be restrained. All restraint systems shall be factory produced by
            the manufacturer.


2021 ED&CS                                    13-63                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 182 of 229


         b) Pipe joints: The standard joint restraint method shall use manufacturer provided
            restrained joint (RJ) pipe. Pipe diameter <12-inches may utilize mechanical joint
            (MJ) pipe with approved wedge action retainer glands (for the specified distance).
            All joint restraint products that include the means of restraint within the joint gasket
            shall be prohibited. Fusible C-900 DR 18 PVC may be utilized as an acceptable
            means of restraint.

         c) Valves: Valves shall be restrained in a manner consistent with operation as a dead
            end. This includes restraining the valve to the pipe and restraining enough pipe
            joints on both sides of the valve to accommodate dead end restraint.

      14. A plug valve shall be installed at least every 3000-feet of force main length, or as
          determined by the Director.

      15. All ARVs, plug valves >12-inches, or other appurtenances that have moving or
          operating parts and require maintenance and routine access shall have a manhole placed
          over the operating portion of the device.

      16. Separation Requirements:

         a) Separation between Sewer Force Main and Storm Water Pipes:

             Sewer force mains shall have a minimum vertical separation of 18-inches between
             storm pipes and minimum horizontal separation of 10-feet. Where sanitary and
             storm sewers cross with a vertical separation of less than 18-inches, the entire leg
             of sanitary sewer shall be made of standard DIP with joints rated for water main
             service and the void space between the pipe crossing shall be backfilled with 3000-
             psi concrete or minimum 500-psi, quick setting, non-excavatable flowable fill that
             meets or exceeds NCDOT specifications. Where sanitary and storm sewers cross
             with a vertical separation of less than 18-inches, approval from the Director is
             required.

         b) Separation between Sanitary Sewer and Sewer Force Main:

             There shall be a minimum 10-foot horizontal separation between parallel gravity
             and/or force mains.

         c) Separation between Sewer Force Main and Water Main:

             There shall be a minimum 10-foot lateral separation (pipe edge to pipe edge)
             between parallel water and sewer force mains. If local conditions or barriers prevent
             a 10-foot lateral separation:

             1) The water main shall be laid in a separate trench, with the elevation of the
                bottom of the water main at least 18-inches above the top of the sewer; or


2021 ED&CS                                    13-64                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                               Page 183 of 229


             2) The water main shall be laid in the same trench as the sewer, with the water
                main located at one side on a bench of undisturbed earth and with the elevation
                of the bottom of the water main at least 18-inches above the top of the sewer.

         d) Crossings (Water Main over Sewer Force Main):

             At a minimum, 18-inches of clearance shall be maintained measured from pipe edge
             to pipe edge between the water main and the sewer force main. The water main
             shall be installed above the sewer force main.

             If 18-inches of clearance is not maintained, the NCPE must submit justification to
             demonstrate that it is impracticable to maintain the separation distances required,
             taking into consideration feasibility, cost, and the factors set forth in 15A NCAC
             18C. The proposed deviation may be approved, on a case-by-case basis, by the
             permitting authority.

         e) Crossing (Water Main under Sewer Force Main):

             Allowed only as approved by the Director when not possible to cross the water
             main above the sewer force main. See Crossings above for direction.

         f) Sanitary Sewer Force main and Stream Crossings:

             The top of the sewer force main shall be at least 3-feet below the stream bed. If 3-
             feet of cover cannot be achieved, prior approval from the Director must be obtained
             and concrete encasement and DIP shall be required.

             Sewer force mains shall not be installed under any part of water impoundments or
             area to impounded. Sewer mains shall not be installed through, above, or below any
             retained earth structure. Sewer main location and depth shall not be within the
             theoretical 1:1 slope of any impoundment dam or structure or shall maintain a
             minimum of 10-feet horizontal separation from the toe of slope, whichever is
             greater. The entire easement shall be outside of the toe of slope unless prior
             approval is obtained from the Director.

             The following minimum horizontal separations shall be maintained:

             1) 100-feet from any private or public water supply source, including wells, WS-
                1 waters or Class I or Class II impounded reservoirs used as a source of drinking
                water (except as noted below).

             2) 50-feet from any waters (from normal high water) classified WS-II, WS-III,
                WS-IV, B, SA, ORW, HQW, or SB (except as noted below).

             3) 10-feet from any stream, lake, or impoundment (except as noted below).


2021 ED&CS                                  13-65                              Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 184 of 229


              4) 100-feet from private wells.

              Where the required minimum separations cannot be obtained, an exception may be
              considered by the Director, in accordance with 15A NCAC 02T.

      17. All retaining walls shall have a separation from the easement boundary of at least 1:1,
          vertical to horizontal. For example, if the retaining wall is 10-feet tall, it shall be placed
          no closer than 10-feet from the easement.

   C. MATERIALS

      1. Pipe Materials

          a) Outside of a pump station site, PVC C900 DR 18 pipe shall be required for all sewer
             force mains. In some cases, DIP is preferred and shall conform to the Standards.

          b) PVC pipe shall meet the requirements of AWWA C900 and be green in color. Pipe
             shall be Class 150, SDR 18, integral bell with strength equal to the pipe wall, DI
             outside diameter, 18-foot length, with a solid elastomeric ring.

          c) PVC pipe for force mains with a diameter of 4-inches shall be SDR-21 or Schedule
             40 in accordance with ASTM D1785.

          d) DIP shall be designed and manufactured in accordance with AWWA C150 and
             C151 and provided in normal 20-foot lengths. All DIP shall be marked in
             conformance with ASTM A-746. The minimum requirements for DIP and required
             laying conditions are tabulated below. For all other installations other than
             specified, the laying condition, bedding requirements or the minimum pressure
             class rating and/or thickness class shall be increased in accordance with AWWA
             C151. A pipe thickness design shall be submitted for external loading in all cases
             where the pipe depth exceeds the specified range of depths outlined in the following
             table.




2021 ED&CS                                      13-66                                Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                                   Page 185 of 229


             Table 11: Pressure Class, Maximum Depth and Laying Condition for
                                 DI Wastewater Force Mains
                Pipe           AWWA C150,         Pressure    Maximum Depth
              Diameter        Laying Condition      Class        of Cover*
               4-8-inch              Type 1              350-psi        3-16-feet
               4-8-inch              Type 4              350-psi        16-20-feet
              10-12-inch             Type 1              350-psi        3-10-feet
              10-12-inch             Type 4              350-psi        10-20-feet
              14-20-inch             Type 4              350-psi        3-25-feet
               24-inch               Type 4              350-psi        3-25-feet
     *Unless otherwise recommended by the manufacturer

               Note: For cases not specified, a DIP and bedding design certified by a NCPE shall
               be required in compliance with AWWA C150 and the Ductile Iron Pipe Research
               Association.

               The following table lists approved manufactures of DIP, DIP fittings, and RJDIP
               that are allowable for installation within the Town’s system.




2021 ED&CS                                      13-67                          Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                            Page 186 of 229


                           Table 12: Approved Manufacturers for DIP
                                                Pressure/
   Product          Approved                                 Reference
                                  Model/Series    Load                                    Requirements
   Category        Manufacturer                              Standard
                                                 Rating

                       US Pipe          Tyton Joint                                      40-mils of Protecto
                                                                     AWWA C150           401 Lining (lining
 DIP >4-inch
                                                          250-350    and C151 and        must be less than 1
  Diameter,           American
                                       Fastite Joint        psi         DIPRA            year old); McWane
 Protecto 401        (ACIPCO)
                                                                       Standards            pipe stamped
    Lined
                                                                                       “McWane by Atlantic
                      McWane            Tyton Joint                                     States or Clow” only

                        Sigma
  DI Fittings        Tyler Union
   >4-inch                                                           AWWA110/          Shall always meet or
                                        Mech. Joint       250-350
  Diameter,         SIP Industries                                    C111 And         exceed pipe pressure
                                                            psi
 Protecto 401                                                        AWWA C153                 rating
    Lined                Star
                      American

  Ductile Iron         US Pipe           TR Flex
Restrained Joint
 (RJDIP) Pipe         American                                                           Boltless restraint
                                         Flex Ring        250-300    AWWA C150
    >4-inch          (ACIPCO)                                                            unless otherwise
                                                            psi       and C151
   Diameter,                             TR Flex                                             specified
 Protecto 401                           (pipes 24-
     lined            McWane
                                        inches and
                                         smaller)

                e) All DI force mains and fittings for sewer construction shall receive an interior
                   ceramic epoxy coating, consisting of an amine cured novalac epoxy, as
                   manufactured by Protecto 401. The interior coating shall be applied at a nominal
                   dry film interior thickness per the manufacturer’s specifications. All DIP bells and
                   spigots shall be lined with Protecto 401 joint compound and applied by brush to
                   ensure full coverage. All pipe supplied with Protecto 401 interior lining shall be
                   provided free of holidays. Pipe installed with defects in the lining will be rejected.
                   Patching of Protecto 401 coating defects after installation shall not be approved.
                   Protecto 401 lined pipe must be installed within one year of the application date on
                   the pipe.

                   Alternate liner manufacturers shall have a minimum of 10-years of successful
                   experience and be able to demonstrate successful performance on comparable
                   projects.



    2021 ED&CS                                        13-68                            Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                                    Page 187 of 229


             Permeability rating of 0.00 when tested according to Method A of ASTM E-96-66,
             Procedure A with a test duration of 30 days.

         f) Pipe fittings shall be made of DI per AWWA C110 or C153. All fittings <24-inches
            in diameter shall be designed for a minimum internal pressure of 350-psi, unless
            otherwise approved by the Town. Fittings shall be MJ or proprietary manufacturer
            provided restrained joint. Gaskets shall be in accordance with AWWA C111. All
            fittings shall be interior coated with Protecto 401. Two 45-degree fittings shall be
            used in lieu of 90-degree fittings in all horizontal and vertical installations.

         g) Restrained Joint Pipe shall be the boltless type unless otherwise approved. For
            installations requiring welded locking rings, the rings shall be factory welded. The
            restrained joints shall provide a minimum of 4-degrees of deflection for pipe sizes,
            4- 12-inches in diameter.

             All proprietary pipe restraint systems shall be approved by the Town and provided
             in compliance with all standards for coatings, linings, pressure classes, etc. as
             required for PVC C900 or DIP. All restrained joint pipe shall be installed based on
             laying conditions, pressure class, etc. as required for typical DIP.

             Pipe and fitting manufacturer(s) must have a supplier within 200-miles of the Town.

      2. Manhole Materials:

         a) All sewer force main manholes shall be installed according to Town Standards.

         b) Combination ARV Manholes: Manholes for combination ARV installation shall
            be provided in flat top configuration to accommodate the length of wastewater
            combination ARV. In cases where the combination ARV shall be located in a paved
            area, provide typical eccentric, tapered manhole design with typical manhole frame
            and cover for paved areas. The minimum manhole diameter for combination ARV
            shall be 5-feet. Minimum 6-feet diameter manholes shall be used with force mains
            20-inches and larger and when an odor control system is required. Any manholes
            located in NCDOT or street ROW shall be provided flush with finish grade. ARVs
            shall be 2-inch sewage dual ARV with plastic body, per the manufacturer
            specifications. Refer to Table 2.

         c) Manhole Epoxy Coating: Sewer force main receiver manholes, downstream
            manholes within 1200-feet of receiving manhole, sewer force main combination
            ARV manholes, and other concrete structures subject to high levels of hydrogen
            sulfide gas shall be provided with an approved monolithic epoxy coating system
            per the manufacturer’s recommendations, and all blemishes shall be touched up
            prior to acceptance. Refer to Table 2. Coatings shall conform to the USACE
            specification C-200.



2021 ED&CS                                  13-69                             Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                           Page 188 of 229


             1) Surface Preparation: Concrete manholes must be well cured prior to application
                of the protective epoxy coating. A minimum of 28-days cure time for standard
                Portland cement is required. If earlier application is desired, compressive or
                tensile strength of the concrete can be tested to determine if acceptable cure has
                occurred. (Note: Bond strength of the coating to the concrete surface is
                generally limited to the tensile strength of the concrete itself. An Elcometer pull
                test to determine suitability of concrete for coating may be required).

                Surface preparation shall be based on the requirements of the manufacturer of
                the epoxy coating and applicable National Association of Corrosion Engineers
                (NACE) International standards.

             2) Installation: A minimum thickness as determined by the manufacturer shall be
                applied to new manholes and existing manholes. During application a wet film
                thickness gage, meeting ASTM D4414 – Standard Practice for Measurement of
                Wet Film Thickness of Organic Coatings by Notched Gages – shall be used to
                ensure a monolithic coating and uniform thickness during application.

                Temperature of the surface to be coated should be maintained per
                manufacturer’s recommendations during application. Prior to and during
                application, care should be taken to avoid exposure of direct sunlight or other
                intense heat source to the structure being coated. Where varying surface
                temperatures do exist, care should be taken to apply the coating when the
                temperature is falling versus rising or in the early morning. The humidity should
                also be observed to ensure compliance with the epoxy manufacturers’
                recommendations.

                Manufacturer approved heated plural component spray equipment shall be used
                in the application of the specified protective epoxy coating. The spray
                equipment shall be specifically designed to accurately ratio and apply the
                specified protective coating materials and shall be regularly maintained and in
                proper working order.

                If necessary, subsequent top coating or additional coats of the protective coating
                should occur as soon as the basecoat becomes tack free, but no later than the
                recoat window for the specified products. Additional surface preparations
                procedures will be required if this recoat window is exceeded.

   D. INSTALLATION

      1. General

         DIP shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of AWWA C600 and the
         Ductile Iron Pipe Handbook published by the Ductile Iron Pipe Research Association.
         Materials at all times shall be handled with mechanical equipment or in such a manner


2021 ED&CS                                   13-70                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 189 of 229


         to protect them from damage. At no time shall pipe and fittings be dropped or pushed
         into ditches.

         Pipe trench excavation and backfilling shall be performed in accordance with Section
         5 of these Standards.

         Pipe and fitting interiors shall be protected from foreign matter and shall be inspected
         for damage and defects prior to installation. In the event foreign matter is present in
         pipe and fittings, it shall be removed before installation. Open ends of pipe shall be
         plugged or capped when pipe laying is not in progress.

         Force mains shall be installed with a minimum cover of 4.5-feet measured from the top
         of the pipe and shall be measured as follows:

         a) 4.5-feet from the top of pipe to finished subgrade when under a roadway;

         b) 4.5-feet from top of pipe to existing edge of pavement elevation when adjacent to
            a roadway and installed in existing ROW or future ROW;

         c) 4.5-feet from top of pipe to finished grade in all other areas.

         Pipe shall be laid on true lines as directed by the NCPE. The wastewater force main
         shall be installed at a grade which will allow air to migrate to a high point where the
         air can be released through an ARV. A minimum pipe slope of 1-foot in 500-feet should
         be maintained, and there shall be no intermediate high points in the line.

         Trenches shall be sufficiently wide to adjust the alignment. Bell holes shall be dug at
         each joint to permit proper joint assembly. The pipe shall be laid and adjusted so that
         alignment with the next succeeding joint will be centered in the joint and the entire
         pipeline will be in continuous alignment both horizontally and vertically. Pipe joints
         shall be fitted so that a thoroughly watertight joint will result. All joints will be made
         in conformance with the manufacturer’s recommendations for the type of joint selected.
         All transition joints between different types of pipe shall be made with transition
         couplings approved on equipment submittals and shop drawings showing the complete
         assembly to scale.

         Force mains shall not be installed within roundabouts or alleys.

         All PVC fore mains shall have tracer wire, tracer wire clips, and detector tape marked
         "Sewage Force Main." Refer to Section 5 of these Standards for detailed requirements
         for Utility Locator Installation and Devices.

      2. Utility Coordination

         Prior to beginning construction, the Contractor shall contact local utility companies and
         verify the location of existing utilities. The Contractor shall be completely and solely

2021 ED&CS                                   13-71                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 190 of 229


         responsible for locating all existing buried utilities inside the construction zone before
         beginning excavation. The Contractor shall be solely responsible for scheduling and
         coordinating the utility location work. When an existing utility is in conflict with
         construction, it shall be exposed prior to beginning construction to prevent damage to
         the existing utility.

   E. VALVES AND APPURTENANCES

      1. General: The rated working pressure of all valves and appurtenances shall meet the
         maximum design pressure of the pump station and pipeline.

      2. Check Valve: Check valves shall be cast iron body, bronze mounted full opening swing
         check valves in conformance with AWWA C508. Valves shall have renewable bronze
         or stainless steel seat ring and resilient faced clapper. Provide valve with outside weight
         and lever unless noted otherwise. Provide valve body constructed with a solid bronze
         or stainless steel shaft extending through bronze brushed bearings and "O" ring seals
         or adjustable graphite/composition packing.

      3. Plug Valve: Plug valves shall be non-lubricating, eccentric action and resilient plug
         facing with heavy duty Type 316 stainless steel bearings. Plug valves shall be designed
         for a minimum working pressure of 175-psi for valves <12-inches, 150-psi for valves
         >14-inches. Valves shall be bi-directional and meet the pressure rating in both
         directions of flow. The plug valve body shall be cast iron ASTM A126 Class B with
         welded-in overlay of 90% nickel alloy content on all surfaces contacting the face of the
         plug. Sprayed plated, nickel welded rings or seats screwed into the body are not
         acceptable.

         All plug valves <12-inches shall have round port design that provides a minimum 80%
         port area. The valve plug shall be DI ASTM A536 Grade 65-45-12 <20-inches in
         diameter, with Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomer (EPDM), Buna N, or Neoprene
         resilient seating surface to mate with the body seat. Valves >24-inches may have plugs
         made of cast iron in accordance with ASTM A126 Class B. Large plug valves with
         rectangular plugs shall provide clean passage for a solid sphere >67% of the adjoining
         pipe diameter to facilitate pigging of the force main. Force main plug valves with
         rectangular port shall be “full port” cross-sectional area perpendicular to the flow of at
         least 100% of the adjoining pipe.

         All buried plug valves shall be provided with a worm gear actuator. All plug valves
         shall be buried and provided with a 2-inch operator nut and a valve box. Plug valves
         greater than 12-inches shall be installed such that the actuator and gearing is accessible
         in a manhole. All plug valves shall be provided with typical mechanical joint end
         connections and restrained with wedge action retainer glands on both ends of the valve
         assembly.

         Valves shall be installed according to the manufacturer’s recommendations. Typically
         for wastewater this means installing the seat side toward the pump station so that the

2021 ED&CS                                    13-72                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                               Page 191 of 229


         flow is against the face of the plug in the closed position. In the open position, the plug
         should rotate up to the top of the pipeline which may require installing the valve on its
         side.

      4. Rubber Seated Ball Valve: For larger diameter force mains where plug valves are not
         available, rubber seated ball valves shall be of the tight-closing, shaft mounted type
         that fully comply with AWWA Standard C507 to provide a full port unobstructed
         waterway with no additional pressure drop. Design pressure ratings shall be >150-psi
         and provide tight shutoff against flow. With the valve in the closed position, the rubber
         seated valve shall be bubble tight at rated pressure. All ball valves shall be provided in
         an epoxy coated manhole with worm gear actuators and a handwheel.

      5. Valve Box Covers: Force main plug valves or ball valves shall have locking valve box
         covers and/or manhole lids with the word “Sewer” cast into them.

      6. Combination ARV: Shall be provided to purge air from the system at startup, vent small
         pockets of air while the system is being pressurized and running and prevent critical
         vacuum conditions during draining. The combination ARV shall automatically exhaust
         large volumes of air from the system when it is being filled and allow air to re-enter
         the pipe when the system is being drained. Combination ARVs shall be sized by the
         NCPE and approved by the Town.

         a) Combination ARVs shall be of the single housing style with Type 304 or 316
            stainless steel body. The valve must meet the requirements of AWWA C512 and
            be installed in accordance with the Details. The valve shall have a minimum 145-
            psi working pressure unless the pipeline design requires a higher-pressure rating.

         b) The valve shall have a minimum 2-inch male NPT inlet for a 2-inch valve assembly.
            Combination ARVs sized from 3-inches to 8-inches shall be provided with studded
            inlet connectors or flanged connections. The combination ARV shall be provided
            with cylindrical shaped floats and antishock orifice made of high-density
            polyethylene. Combination ARVs with spherical floats shall not be accepted.

         c) Installation of Combination ARV Assembly:

             1) All combination ARVs shall be connected to the main by an MJ tee with a
                branch diameter equal to at least half of the main diameter.

             2) The 2-inch combination ARV shall be provided with male NPT threads and
                isolated with a 2-inch gate valve. The isolation valve shall be provided with
                NPT threads and connected with brass or bronze piping.

             3) Combination ARVs >3-inches shall be connected by flange or studs. If needed
                due to larger diameter tee, a flanged reducer shall be provided between the tee
                and the isolation valve. Gate valves shall be used for 3-inch assemblies.


2021 ED&CS                                    13-73                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                               Page 192 of 229


                 Combination ARVs >4-inches shall be isolated with a plug valve. In all cases,
                 the isolation valve shall be sized equal to the combination ARV.

             4) The ARV shall be installed in a 4-foot diameter manhole per the standard detail.

      7. Pigging Station: Force mains shall be constructed with a pigging/bypass connection
         located within 50-feet of the pump station valve vault. This pigging leg shall consist
         entirely of Protecto 401 coated DIP of the same diameter as the main. A restrained MJ
         wye shall be provided in the main line and valved on each branch. The pigging leg shall
         extend out of the ground and be closed with a blind flange. The protruding pipe shall
         be protected by concrete bollards spaced 6-feet apart.

      8. Bypass Connection Assembly: An additional bypass connection assembly may be
         required. The size, criticality and proximity to a downstream manhole are factors used
         to determine the need for this connection. The bypass assembly shall include a ball
         valve on the upstream side of the bypass assembly to prevent bypass flow from draining
         back to the pump station. The bypass assembly shall be brought to the final graded
         surface with a visible blind flange assembly for connection by an outside pump
         contractor. The protruding pipe shall be protected by concrete bollards spaced 6-feet
         apart.


13.06 FORCE MAIN INSPECTIONS AND TESTING

   A. INSPECTIONS

      1. All materials and equipment used in the construction of the force main must be verified
         for compliance with the Standards prior to installation. Non-conforming materials or
         equipment shall be immediately removed from the job site.

      2. Compliance with plans and Standards will be verified on a regular basis.

   B. TESTING

      1. General

         a) The Contractor shall furnish all materials, labor, and equipment to perform all
            testing.

         b) All water or wastewater used during testing of the force main must be returned to
            the Town’s sanitary sewer system after proper coordination with the Town.

         c) All on-site testing and/or installation verification shall be performed in the presence
            of Town staff.

      2. Force main Testing

2021 ED&CS                                   13-74                               Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                              Page 193 of 229


         a) The force main shall be tested in accordance with the water main standards set forth
            in Section 6.

         b) The following tests must be run on coupons from factory lined DIP:

             1) ASTM B-117 Salt Spray (scribed panel) – Results to equal 0.0 undercutting
                after two years

             2) ASTM G-95 Cathodic Disbondment 1.5-volts @ 77 F. Results to equal no more
                than 0.5-mm undercutting after 30 days

             3) Immersion testing rated using ASTM D-714-87

                  a). 20% Sulfuric Acid – no effect after two years

                  b). 140 F 25% Sodium Hydroxide – no effect after two years

                  c). 160 F Distilled Water – no effect after two years

                  d). 120 F Tap Water (scribed panel) – 0.0 undercutting after two years with
                      no effect

             4) An abrasion resistance of no more than 3 mils (0.075-mm) loss after one million
                cycles using European Standard EN 598: 1994, Section 7.8 Abrasion
                Resistance.




2021 ED&CS                                  13-75                             Supp# 10 June 2024



                                                                                           Page 194 of 229


                GUIDELINES FOR PUMP STATION FINAL FIELD INSPECTION AND
                                  OPERATIONAL TEST
Project:
The following items shall be provided by the Developer to the Town before the Final Field Inspection and
Operational Test begins:

      Three (3) copies O&M Manuals signed and sealed by the design engineer, including:
              Cover Sheet
              Pump manufacturer
              Source of repair parts (phone and address)
              Rated capacity (GPM) of pumps
              Total dynamic head (TDH) of pumps
              Model number of pumps
              Serial number of each pump
              Impeller diameter each pump
              Data plate information from each motor
              Data on all other pump station equipment
              Pump Performance Design Curves
              CERTIFIED pump performance curves (including pump cut-off lines) with operating conditions
              As-built detailed, dimensioned drawings of pump and pump base elbow
              As-built detailed, dimensioned drawings of pump motor
              As-built control panel wiring diagram
              Pump and motor Installation and Service Manual
              Detailed information on:
                       Control panel
                       Alarm dialer
                       Generator
      Mylar As-built one (l) copy
      PE certification
      Warranty Letter
      Recorded Easement or Right-of-Way documentation for access
      Documentation of site dedication
      Pump Station Maintenance Agreement
      Crane Certification will be required to document compliance with OSHA Standards
      Ownership of power with Duke Energy transferred to Town of Holly Springs
      Ensure the pump station address is the permanent address.

Date of Inspection:                                          Inspector:

Attendees:


       2015 ED&CS                                    13-76                              Supp# 10 June 2024

                                                                                                     Page 195 of 229


                       Final Field Inspection and Operational Test-Required Inspections:

The following items should be field inspected for compliance with approved plans and Town Standards. All
employees shall conform to the Town of Holly Springs Safety Policies and Procedures in the course of making the
following inspections. Attention is directed especially to the Town’s existing policies pertaining to electrical systems
and confined space entry. Owner shall ensure that the NCPE, subconsultant design professionals, equipment
representatives, and laborers are present for the field inspection.

Site:     Section 13.02

        Positive drainage away from station
        16-foot access road with good drainage and cross drainage
        Adequate gravel area for vehicular turn-around installed
        8-foot chain link fence with 3 strands barb wire (galvanized or aluminum)
        Signage “Town of Holly Springs _________________ [station to be named by the Town] Pump
        Station, [address here], Emergency 919-557-9111” (white on blue lettering)
        Ground cover outside fence
        Vehicular accessibility to pumps
        Concrete pad inside fence area
        16-feet minimum width manual swing gates with 180-degree opening (non-obstructed)
        600-watt sodium vapor light with photocell (30’ mounting height) with switch on pole
        Opaque buffers installed
        Power to pump station converted to Town of Holly Springs account with Duke Energy
        Water service converted to Town of Holly Springs account

Valve Vault: Section 13.02

        Valve Vault
        Check valve as designed
        Gate valve as designed
        Pressure gauge
        Vault drains back to wet well with Back Flap

Wet Well:      Section 13.02

        Cleaned of all debris and filled with water
        6’ minimum diameter
        Interior joints grouted
        Koppers super service black coating (2 coats)
        All bolts stainless steel
        Independent hatch for raising basket
        Access hatch and steps (check location)
        D.I. vent with bronze insect screen
        Class 50 DIP suction discharge and piping
        Well Point


          2015 ED&CS                                     13-77                               Supp# 10 June 2024

                                                                                                           Page 196 of 229


                   Final Field Inspection and Operational Test-Required Inspections:

Pumps:   Section 13.03

    Two pumps - field check the plates on pumps to insure conformance with design plans and O&M
    manuals (Manufacturer, GPM, TDH, Model Number, Serial Number, Impeller Size)
    Pump start-up (both pumps) on regular power feed
    Pump start-up (both pumps) on back-up power feed (generator)
    Verify automatic switch to back-up power source during power failure
    Verify automatic cycling between two pumps

Pump Motor Controls: Section 13.03

    Aluminum weather hood 7’ height with 4’ overhang with severe service paint
    NEMA 3R enclosure with locking hasp
    Hinged inner door with overload reset buttons, circuit breakers, switches, 2nd pilot lights
    as the only accessible components when closed
    Line terminal block
    Circuit breaker for each pump motor 10,000 RMS for 200-240-VAC, 5,000 RMS for 440-480
    VAC
    Transformer primary circuit breaker (when required)
    Control power transformer (when required)
    Magnetic contactor and overload relay for each motor
    Six-digit, non-resettable elapsed time meters
    Condensation strip heater with thermostat in control panel enclosure
    Phase and voltage monitor
    Lighting arrestor
    Thru-door overload reset push buttons
    Two “hands-off-automatic” switches
    Two green pilot lights
    Two seal failure circuit test push buttons
    Pump alternator circuit
    Control relays
    High wet well level alarm device (flashing red light)
    Aluminum float switches
    High temperature shutdown circuit
    Groundings




      2015 ED&CS                                   13-78                            Supp# 10 June 2024

                                                                                                  Page 197 of 229


                     Final Field Inspection and Operational Test-Required Inspections:

Alarm Dialer/SCADA: Section 13.03

     Lockable NEMA 4 enclosure
     120 VAC electrical supply
     Backup battery
     Surge protectors on power and telephone lines
     Dialer programmed with emergency phone numbers
     Approved model in accordance with plans
     Telephone line installed
     SCADA installed

Odor Control:    Section 13.03

     Chemical feed facility for odor control
     2500-gallon liquid chemical storage tank
     Evoqua Bioxide® chemical feed system complete with a VersaDose® LT(VDLT) control system
     Containment system in case of chemical spill
     Freeze proof eyewash and shower wash station with a tepid water system and water heater
     Mechanical ventilation (if required)

Jib Crane/Hoisting Equipment:     Section 13.03

     Pedestal mounted jib crane
     Electric hoist and trolley
     Doghouse shelter
     Provide lifting rings every 6-feet on lifting chain
     Chain bucket

Electrical:   Section 13.02

     Generator-field check plate on generator to ensure conformance with design plans and O&M
     Manual
     3 Phase 240 VAC or 480 VAC
     Meter Base
     NEMA 3R single throw safety switch
     NEMA 3R double throw safety switch
     Building: electrical inspector has approved
     Automatic maintenance operation on timer (minimum weekly)




        2015 ED&CS                                         13-79                   Supp# 10 June 2024

                                                                                                Page 198 of 229


                    Final Field Inspection and Operational Test-Required Inspections:

Force Main:   Section 13.05

    Force main including air release valves – Verify all valves are open
    Force main hydrostatic testing
    Air Release Valve manholes are epoxy coated


 Development Construction Manager                                          Date


 Development Inspection Supervisor                                         Date


 Development Inspector                                                     Date


 Executive Director of Utilities & Infrastructure                          Date


 Deputy Director of Utilities                                              Date


 Owner’s Representative                                                    Date




       2015 ED&CS                                    13-80                        Supp# 10 June 2024

                                                                                               Page 199 of 229


END OF SECTION 13.00

2015 ED&CS 13-81 Supp# 10 June 2024

Page 200 of 229


» 4” BRICK
8” CMU
BLOCK \
‘4 CONCRETE FILL
~ a a AROUND POSTS
24" LI] eae
|\— (4) #4 DOWELS
= WITH CONCRETE
FILL (3000 PSI)
PIER SECTION
NOTES:
1. DESIGN CRITERIA:
WIND VELOCITY = 100 MPH
BASIC PRESUMPTIVE SOIL LATERAL
BEARING PRESSURE = 200 PSF
SIGN WEIGHT = 15 PSF
2. BASIC PRESUMPTIVE SOIL LATERAL WAS INCREASED BY
3. THE FOLLOWING FACTORS TO DETERMINE DEPTH OF
EMBEDMENT:
SHORT TERM WIND LOADING INCREASE = 1.33
J” ALLOWABLE MOVEMENT @ BASE = —_2.00
DESIGN SOIL LATERAL BEARING PRESSURE
= (1.33)(2.00)(200 PSF) = 533 PSF
3. CONCRETE COMPRESSIVE STRENGTH SHALL BE 3000 PSI
4. FOUNDATION CONCRETE SHALL BE PLACED AGAINST

UNDISTURBED SOIL

FINISHED

GRADE \

FLUTED
ALUMINUM
POSTS BY
OTHERS

24°x48”
TALL MASONARY
PIER

PRECAST
CONCRETE TRIM
AROUND
MASONRY PIER

(4) #4
DOWELS

CONCRETE
FOOTING IS 44”
WIDE (6” FOOTING)
PROJECTION ALL
AROUND)

a
_
f

66"

SIGN ELEVATION

DRAWING NOT TO SCALE

SECONDARY GATEWAY SIGN FOUNDATION

STANDARD DETAIL NUMBER: HS373
DATE | REVISIONS A HOLLY

TOWN OF HOLLY SPRINGS

TOBE Ko) SPRINGS

Page 201 of

229



NOTES:
 1.  "WELCOME" font to be Futura Bk BT
 2.    "HOLLY SPRINGS" font to be Garamond MT Regular
 3.    Sign face to face oncoming traffic



                                                                      welcome
                                                                  Holly Springs




             M1 .1875" Thick Aluminum
             M2 .177" Clear Polycarbonate
             M3 Fabricated Aluminum Cabinet: 4" deep                  welcome
               (suspended between posts)
             M4 Fabricated Aluminum 6" deep                       Holly Springs
               background panel
             M5 Fabricated Aluminum 2" deep cabinet
               cut through copy
             M6 .188" White Acrylic
             M7 25mm (1") pvc
             M8 .375" thick acylic; flush mount
             M9 4" diameter fluted post
             M10 Brick - Willamsburg #60
             M11 Precast - Wheat

             C1 Paint - Black; semi-gloss
             C2 Paint - Anti Graffiti Clear Coat; back
                   of cabinet only
             C3 Paint - Blue PMS 7469C; semi-gloss
             C4 Paint - Green PMS 585C; semi-gloss
             C5 Paint - Translucent Green PMS 7490C;
                   subsurface
             C6 Paint - White; semi-gloss
             C7 Paint - custom airbrush logo




     Ilumination: Pure White LED illumination (green panels and
            text on sign panel) 100v - 277v Variable
            12V Ip68 - Waterproof - Power Supplies




                                                                                  Page 202 of 229


5-0” MAX. 50’—0” SINGLE VALVE MAX.
(IF EXCEEDS MAX DISTANCE NEED ADDITIONAL VALVE 5°’ MAX FROM HYDRANT)

5°-0” MAX.

NOTES:
5” STARTZ CONNECTION INSTALLED BY THE HYDRANT TO BE
MANUFACTURER AND PART OF THE HYDRANT SS” «=©— «PLACED WTH PUMPER NOZZLE
ASSEMBLY. (NO ADAPTERS ALLOWED) FACING THE CLOSEST CURB.

CONCRETE ENCASEMENT
SEE DETAIL S607

FINISHED
GRADE

AISI he

L ADWAY f- VRORARIRI ROOT RRO

=. é eres : so Vea $$ TAMPED
CAST IRON WALVE BOX re woos oS BACKFILL

MINIMUM OF 8 C.F.
NO. 57 STONE

3/4” BRIDLE ROD & ROD COLLAR

SOIL

UNDISTURBED

MECHANICAL “JOINT.

2-0"
MAX. 6” GATE VALVE

CONCRETE BLOCKING
MAIN LINE DUCTILE IRON PIPE MIN. 173 C.Y. AT

NOTES: 3000 P.S.I.

1. TOP OF BLOCKING TO BE 2” FROM
CONCRETE THRUST BLOCK HYDRANT WEEP HOLES.
1/3 CY AT 5000 PSI 2. HYDRANTS SHALL BE YELLOW IN COLOR
(SHERWIN WILLIAMS PRO INDUSTRUAL

URETHANE ALKYD ENAMEL SAFETY YELLOW
B54 Y157) DRAWING NOT TO SCALE

STANDARD HYDRANT INSTALLATION [22i9420-GE7AL niiaenr Heee® ] —- orally

DATE | REVISIONS | 10t2 Go)h) Springs
TOWN OF HOLLY SPRINGS age SSD) iene

age 203 of 229



1.   THE MAXIMUM DEPTH OF BURY FOR VERTICAL SHOE
     INSTALLATIONS SHALL NOT EXCEED 4 FEET MEASURED
     FROM THE BREAKAWAY FLANGE TO THE BOTTOM OF THE
     VERTICAL HYUDRANT SHOE.
2.   THE VERTICAL SHOE AND ALL PIPING INCLUDED IN THE
     HYDRANT SUPPLY LINE SHALL BE RESTRAINED WITH
     BLOCKING AND RODDING, OR BLOCKING WITH WEDGE
     ACTION RETAINER GLANDS, OR STANDARD AQUAGRIP
     CONNECTIONS.
3.   IN ALL CASES WHERE THE VERTICAL SHOE IS UTILIZED,
     TYPICAL WASHED STONE BEDDING EXTENDING AT LEAST 12
     INCHES ON ALL SIDES OF THE CENTRAL AXIS AND
     EXTENDING FROM THE TOP OF THE VERTICAL SHOE
     DOWNWARD TO AT LEAST 12 INCHES BELOW THE VERTICAL
     SHOE SHALL BE PROVIDED SURROUNDING THE VERTICAL
     HYDRANT SHOE ASSEMBLY TO ASSURE POSITIVE
     DRAINAGE.
4.   THE ENTIRE ASSEMBLY SHALL BE RESTRAINED AND
     SUPPORT BLOCKING SHALL BE PROVIDED UNDER THE
     VERTICAL BEND ASSEMBLY.
5.   HYDRANTS SHALL BE YELLOW IN COLOR (SHERWIN
     WILLIAMS PRO INDUSTRIAL URETHANE ALKYD ENAMEL
     SAFETY YELLOW B54 Y157)




                                                          Page 204 of 229


SILT FENCE OUTLET
SILT FENCE ALONG ON LOW SIDE OF

BACK OF THE PROPERTY LOT, TYP.

SF——\— sF
t

SILT FENCE
ALONG SIDES |

SILT FENCE OUTLET
ON LOW SIDE OF TURN UP SILT
LOT, TYP. i | —— FENCE, TYP.

STREET

Lot Grading Type Townhomes

Stone Pad

nstall 6” of 2”—3” Coarse Aggregate
Note: 20’ Minimum Width, 12’ Minimum Length
1. Stone Pad must be installed at all access points from the street or alley.

2. Install geotextile fabric below the stone pad.

3. Refer to standard detail HS401 for temporary silt fence installation

4. Refer to standard detail HS413 for silt fence outlet installation.

Maintenance Notes

1. Stone pad must be maintained to prevent tracking of sediment onto the street.

2. Periodically top dress stone or replace when overloaded with sediment.

3. Any material or sediment that is tracked onto the road must be removed
immediately.

4. Inspect silt fence and silt fence outlets weekly and make any needed repairs.

DRAWING NOT TO SCALE

STANDARD DETAIL NUMBER: HSOO0OO} _ Holl

DATE | REVISIONS @ f Springs
TOWN OF HOLLY SPRINGS ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT a pene esos

Townhome Lot Erosion and Sedimentation Control Detail

Page 205 of 229


(7) Small Deciduous Tree
(3) Small Evergreen Tree

OPTION A (3A) Lite Hemy Svcetpre

Small Deciduous Tree (7) Small Evergreen Tree (3)
15’ OC 15° OC

Dwarf Yaupon Holly (35)

36” OC

Little Henry Sweetspire (17) Tif-Tuf sod (4.5’ width)
36” OC /]

300°

(7) Small Deciduous Tree
(70) Dwarf Yaupon Holly
Pink Muhly Grass (5) 36” OC (56) Little Henry Sweetspire
(15) Pink Muhly Grass

Small Deciduous Tree (7) ‘ttle Henry Sweetspire (7)

OPTION B eee

Little Henry Sweetspire (7) ittle Henry Sweetspire (7)

36” OC Dwarf Yaupon Holly

Ornamental Grasses, 36” OC

Pink Muhly Grass ittle Henry Sweetspire (7)

__"* Tuf sod (4.5’ width)

= 5295 OSE
emer as ae oS ears RSS
9 FM °H.0°S 5 BESS % Dace

Little Henry Sweetspire (7) Little Henry Sweetspire (7)

Pink Muhly Grass (5) 36” OC / *. Muhly Grass (5) 36” OC NOTES:
1. Small Deciduous
and Evergreen
500° trees to be
coordinated with
Development

Little Henry Sweetspire (7) Little Henry Sweetspire (7)

DRAWING NOT TO SCALE Services.
STANDARD DETAIL NUMBER: HS823
MEDIAN LANDSCAPING DATE | REVISIONS & F oLty
TOWN OF HOLLY SPRINGS EOE SJ)

206 of 229


                                Engineering Construction and Design Standards
                                      Supplement # 15 Log - June 2026
Section   Sub-Section             Item            Description



                        Wastewater pump systems
13.00       13.02                               Updated the Table of Contents to include a new Section F: Pump Station Demolition and Abandonment.
                            and force mains



                                                  Added Number 8. All wastewater pump stations shall be connected to the Town’s fiber optic network. An
                                                  extension of the fiber optic network may be necessary complete a connection.
13.00       13.01         Pump Station General    Added fiber optic connection to Number 6 under Preliminary Site plan
                                                  Added fiber optic connection to number 4 under C Final Design Requirements
                                                  Added Fiberoptic to number 6 e. Under Final Design Requirements

                                               13.02 D removed ValMatie under Valves. Removed Val-Matie replaced with Vent-Tech under Force Main
                                               Combination Air release Valve (ARVs)
                               Table 2:
                                               13.03 C Removed Inframark replaced with CITI. The town is in the process of changing Supervisory, Control, and
13.00       13.01       Equipment/Manufacturer
                                               Data Acquisition (SCADA) Vendor from Inframark to CITI
                                 List
                                               13.03 G Removed Power Generation, Division Detroit Diesel Corp. Replaced Blue Star Power Systems Added a
                                               new row Generator Engine with Manufacturer column adding Caterpillar, Inc., Cummins, Onan, and John Deere.

                                                  4 A General: Changed 3.5 to 2.5 feet per second to reinstate this standard to align better with State Guidelines
                          Pump Station Site and
13.00       13.02                                 Section F: Pump Station Demolition and Abandonment has been added. This section outlines the standards and
                              Structures
                                                  procedures for demolishing, removing, abandoning, and disposing of existing pump stations and their associated
                                                  infrastructure.
                                                  Added the clarification ‘within the Pump Station Site, and outside of the Pump Station’ to Item 13, Restraint, letter
                                                  (a), to more clearly define where the restraint requirements apply.
13.00       13.05        Wastewater Force Mains

                                                                                                                                                                  Page 207 of 229


13.00   13.05   Wastewater Force Mains      Revised Item 16(a) by reducing the required vertical separation from 24 inches to 18 inches. Added a note
                                            requiring Director approval when sanitary and storm sewers cross with less than 18 inches of separation. This
                                            update restores a standard consistent with State guidelines.
                                            Updated the Table of Contents to add a new section titled ‘Repair and Abandonment’ Added the following
                                            subsections: A. Water Service Line Repair, B. Abandonment of Existing Water Main, C. Abandonment of Existing
                                            Water Services, D. Fire Hydrant Assembly Abandonment, E. Blowoff Assembly Abandonment, and F. Combination
6.00    6.12        Water Distribution
                                            Air Valve Abandonment.



                 Fire Hydrants (Public and Added Vertical Shoe Hydrant Installation requirements for hydrants deeper than 5 ft, including flanged vertical
6.00    6.02
                          Private)         shoes (max 4 ft bury) and full restraint of shoe and supply piping.
                                           Added requirements in Section A for dead‑end mains, including valve/thrust collar/blow‑off assembly, proper
6.00    6.03    Valves and Appurtenances
                                           termination in ROW/easement, and potential connection to nearby dead‑ends to improve flow and quality.
                                           Under Section A Materials (Meters for 3/4" Services): Removed "and installed" and added "Coordinate
                                           installations with the Town"
                                           Under Section A, Materials (Meters for Services 1 inch and greater): Removed the phrase ‘and installed by the
6.00    6.04        Water Service Taps     Town of Holly Springs Public Works Department after approval by the Executive Director of Utilities and
                                           Infrastructure Services.’ Added ‘Coordinate installation with the Town.’ The previous reference to Public Works
                                           was outdated following the Town’s reorganization, as Public Works no longer installs meters; coordination will
                                           likely occur with Finance and Development Services.
                                           Updated section name to align with added content and to establish abandonment standards.
                                           Added Section A on Water Service Line Repairs and created sub‑sections.
                                           Added Section B outlining requirements for abandoning existing water mains, including rules for removal, grouting
                                           in place, disconnection, restraint, and valve/box removal with proper backfill and pavement repair
                                           Added Section C detailing requirements for abandoning existing water services, including removing service stubs,
                                           plugging/capping the Corp stop, marking the tap, and removing remaining service line to the ROW.
6.00    6.12    Repair and Abandonment
                                           Added Section D detailing hydrant abandonment procedures including valve closure, valve‑box removal, hydrant
                                           removal and return, main capping/thrust‑blocking, and proper backfill and restoration.
                                           Added Section E describing blowoff abandonment: close valve, remove assembly, and backfill with flowable fill
                                           and asphalt.




                                                                                                                                                       Page 208 of 229


                                           Added Section F covering abandonment of combination air valves in both paved and unpaved areas, including
                                           valve closure, manhole removal, proper backfill, and surface restoration.
                                           Updated Table of Contents to add ‘Repairs, Modifications, and Abandonments,’ and include Sections A–C for
7.00   7.06         Sanitary Sewer
                                           sewer main repairs, installation, and abandonment.
                                           Added Item 15: Construction Involving Existing Sewer Mains.
                                           Added 15A requiring the sewer main to stay active and a contractor plan for protecting it during construction.
7.00   7.01      Gravity Sewer Mains
                                           Added 15B requiring contractors to submit demolition‑related construction, reconnection, and bypass pumping
                                           plans for approval.
                                           Added language under Section Manholes, Item 7, allowing the use of watertight covers and vents that extend a
7.00   7.01      Gravity Sewer Mains       minimum of 24 inches above the 100‑year flood elevation, pending approval from the Executive Director of
                                           Utilities & Infrastructure.
                                           Retitled section to ‘Repairs, Modifications, and Abandonment.
                                          Added Section A: Sewer Main Repair.
                                          Added Section B with new Item 2 requiring 6 in. washed‑stone bedding compacted to 95% Proctor before
                                          installing replacement pipe.
                                          Added Section C: Abandonment of Existing Sewer Mains.
                                          Under Section C. Number 1. A detailed pumping and emergency plan shall be required for any sewer line draining
                                          event.
                                          Under Section C Number 2. All sanitary sewer mains and sewer force mains, active, inactive, or abandoned shall
                                          begin to be drained. All effluent shall be pumped to a downstream manhole (when available) or other containment
              Repairs, Modifications, and tank utilizing continuous piping.
7.00   7.06
                    Abandonment           Under Section C Number 3. Existing sewer mains and casings located outside of road sections shall be removed,
                                          unless otherwise directed by the Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure. All materials and labor shall be
                                          provided by the contractor.
                                          Under Section C. Number 4.Existing sewer mains and casings located within a road section shall be grout filled
                                          and abandoned in place.
                                          Under Section C. Number 5. In other locations, grout filling and abandonment in place may be allowed with prior
                                          approval from the Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure.




                                                                                                                                                         Page 209 of 229


                                                                       Under Section C Number 6. Sewer service laterals shall be abandoned by removing and replacing the saddle with
                                                                       a 360-degree stainless steel sleeve. At in-line wyes the service lateral shall be cut within 12 inches of the wye and
                                                                       a mechanical cap installed on DIP/cast services or glued to PVC services and the abandoned wye encased with 1
                                                                       cubic foot of concrete.




  Revised DETAILS                                                                                 Name
HS373               Secondary Gateway Sign Foundation
HS374               Secondary Gateway Sign
HS622_1             Pump Station Layout < 10 HP
HS622_2             Typical Pump Station Site layout
HS823               Median Landscaping
HS1003              Townhome Lot Erosion and Sedimentation Control Detail




                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 210 of 229


                                        Holly Springs Town Council
                                             Town Council Meeting Agenda Cover Sheet


                                                                        Agenda Item#: 13.
Consent Agenda
Title: Holly Springs Rd. (Central) - Design Change Order #5
Strategic Priority Area: Community Safety
Vibrant Community
Growth Management & Economic Vitality
Staff Resource: Tim Athy, Utilities and Infrastructure


Action(s):

    • Award and authorize the Town Manager to sign and execute the Kimley-Horn and
      Associates, Inc. (Kimley-Horn) design contract Change Order #5 in the amount of
      $24,000.
    • Authorize the Town Manager to execute any change orders for the design contract within
      the approved design project budget.

Explanation:

    • The Holly Springs Rd. (Central) transportation project is a capacity, mobility, and safety
      improvement project between Flint Point Ln. and Main St. Improvements include
      installing a four-lane median divided roadway with pedestrian safety improvements.
    • This change order includes: (1) staking Duke Energy utility easements for vegetation
      clearing; and (2) individual, recordable parcel plats for right-of-way and easement
      condemnations.
           o Once Duke has cleared their easements, they can begin the overhead power line
              relocation.
           o It is vital for Duke Energy to begin their relocations this summer to keep the
              project on schedule.
           o Preparation of individual parcel plats will streamline the recordation process for
              property, rights-of-way, and easements subject to condemnation.
    • At the June 2, 2026, Mayor and Town Council Business meeting, Council approved the
      Condemnation Resolution related to property acquisitions for the Holly Springs Rd.
      (Central) project.
    • The $14+ million Locally Administered Projects Program (LAPP) grant awarded to the
      Town is funded with federal dollars, which by law, requires the Town to acquire property
      according to the Uniform Act of 1970.

Background:

    • At the 2022 Mayor and Town Council Retreat, council provided guidance for staff to
      resume project efforts and endorsed a funding strategy for the planning, design, and
      construction of the "Central" portion of Holly Springs Rd. improvements.
                                                                     Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                      June 16, 2026

                                                                                        Page 211 of 229


    • Current scheduling anticipates construction bidding for the project to occur in late 2026.

Funding Source(s):

    • Community Investment Plan - Transportation Bond Funds / LAPP Grant funds

Attachment(s):
1.   HSR(central) Kimley-Horn_CO#5




                                                                     Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                      June 16, 2026

                                                                                        Page 212 of 229


                                 CHANGE ORDER INSTRUCTIONS



A. GENERAL INFORMATION

This document was developed to provide a uniform format for handling Contract changes that affect the
Contract Sum or Price or the Contract Time or Times. Changes that have been initiated by a Work
Change Directive must be incorporated into a subsequent Change Order if they affect the Contract Sum or
Price or the Contract Time or Times.

Changes that affect the Contract Sum or Price or the Contract Time or Times should be promptly covered
by a Change Order. The practice of accumulating change order items to reduce the administrative burden
may lead to unnecessary disputes.

If milestones have been listed, any effect of a Change Order thereon should be addressed.

For supplemental instructions and minor changes not involving a change in the Contract Sum or Price or
the Contract Time or Times, a Field Order may be used.

B. COMPLETING THE CHANGE ORDER FORM

Engineer or Architect initiates the form, including a description of the changes involved and attachments
based upon documents and proposals submitted by Contractor, or requests from Owner, or both.

Once Engineer or Architect has completed and signed the form, all copies should be sent to Contractor for
approval. After approval and signature by Contractor, all copies should be sent to Owner for approval.
Engineer or Architect should distribute executed copies after approval by Owner.

If a change only applies to the Contract Sum or Price or to the Contract Time or Times, cross out the part
of the tabulation that does not apply.




                                                                                                      Page 213 of 229


                                         CHANGE ORDER

CHANGE ORDER NO.: ___5____                      DATE: June 1, 2026

Project: Holly Springs Road Widening Central, # U-6094

Contractor:                    _________________________________

Engineer/Architect: Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.

CONTRACTOR is directed to make the following changes in the Contract Documents.

Description:
Revise Scope of Work to add Task 17 – Duke Easement Staking with wooden stakes; Create
separate Duke easement plats for the parcels to be condemned.

Attachments:   Change Order 5 Proposal from Bass Nixon Kennedy



 CHANGE IN CONTRACT SUM OR PRICE:                      CHANGE IN CONTRACT TIME OR TIMES:

 Original Contract Price                               Original Contract Times

 $491,800,00                                           Substantial Completion:_______N/A___________

                                                       Ready for final payment: ____________________
                                                                                      days or dates
 Net change from previous Change Orders No. 1 to       Net change from previous Change Orders No. ____
 4: $501,784.00                                        to No. _____: _____________________ days

 Contract Sum or Price prior to this Change Order      Contract Times with all approved Change Orders
 $993,584.00
                                                       Substantial Completion:____________________
                                                       Ready for final payment:_____________________
                                                                                        days or dates
 Net Increase (decrease) of this Change Order          Net Increase (decrease) of this Change Order
 $24,000.00                                            ______________________________________
                                                                               days

 Contract Sum or Price with all approved Change        Contract Times with all approved Change Orders
 Orders                                                Substantial Completion:____________________
 $1,017,584.00                                         Ready for final payment:_____________________
                                                                                      days or dates

RECOMMENDED:                      APPROVED:                             ACCEPTED:

By: _______________________ By: _______________________                 By: ______________________
  Director of Utilities & Infrastructure Town Manager                       Contractor
   (Authorized Signature)                (Authorized Signature)             (Authorized Signature)
Date: ____________________          Date: ______________________        Date: ____________________




                                                                                                 Page 214 of 229


CHANGE ORDER NO.: __5_____

Page _3__ of _10__

The adjustment in Contract Sum or Price and/or Contract Time or Times stated in this Change Order shall
comprise the total price and/or time adjustment due or owed the CONTRACTOR for the work or changes
defined in this Change Order. By executing the Change Order, the CONTRACTOR acknowledges and
agrees that the stipulated price and/or time adjustments include the costs and delays for all work
contained in the Change Order, including costs and delays associated with the interruption of schedules,
extended overheads, delay, and cumulative impacts or ripple effect on all other non-affected work under
this Contract. Signing of the Change Order constitutes full and mutual accord and satisfaction for the
adjustment in Contract Sum or Price or Contract Time or Times as a result of increases or decreases in
costs and time of performance caused directly and indirectly from the change, subject to the current scope
of the entire work as set forth in the Contract Documents. Acceptance of the waiver constitutes an
agreement between OWNER and CONTRACTOR that the Change Order represents an equitable
adjustment to the Contract, and that CONTRACTOR waives all rights to file a claim on this Change
Order after it is properly executed.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have caused the execution hereof:

                                        CONTRACTOR:

ATTEST:                                                  By:

                                                         Name:

                                                         Title:
Secretary
                                                         Address:
[Corporate Seal]
                                                         Date:


This instrument has been pre-audited in the manner required by the Local Government Budget and
Fiscal Control Act.

By:                                                               Date:

Title:

                                                         OWNER: TOWN OF HOLLY SPRINGS

Approval as to form and legal sufficiency:               By:

By:                                                      Name:

Title:                                                   Title:

Date:                                                    Date:




                                                                                                     Page 215 of 229


 AMENDMENT NUMBER 05 TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN CLIENT AND KIMLEY-HORN
                         AND ASSOCIATES, INC.


         This is Amendment number 05 dated May 27, 2026 to the agreement between the Town
of Holly Springs ("Client") and Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. ("Consultant") dated January 11,
2023 (“the Agreement") concerning U-6094 Holly Springs Road Widening- Central (the "Project").

        The Consultant has entered into the Agreement with Client for the furnishing of professional
services, and the parties now desire to amend the Agreement.

        The Agreement is amended to include services to be performed by Consultant for
compensation as set forth below in accordance with the terms of the Agreement, which are
incorporated by reference.


Task 17 – Duke Easement Staking

Client has requested Consultant provide staking for the proposed Duke Energy Easement using
wood stakes. BNK will provide this additional staking as requested by the Client as described in
Attachment A.

For the services set forth above, Client shall pay Consultant the following compensation:

Kimley-Horn will perform the services in Task 17 for the total lump sum fee below. Individual task
amounts are informational only. All permitting, application, and similar project fees will be paid
directly by the Client.

Task 17 Duke Easement Staking                                     $24,000

Lump Sum Additional Budget this Amendment                         $24,000




CLIENT:                                           CONSULTANT:

TOWN OF HOLLY SPRINGS                             KIMLEY-HORN AND ASSOCIATES, INC.



By: ______________________________                By: _

Title: _____________________________              Title: _Vice President______________

Date: _____________________________               Date: _May 27, 2026______________




                                                                                                   Page 216 of 229


                                                                                          Attachment A




May 27, 2026

Kimley-Horn
421 Fayetteville Street, Suite 600
Raleigh, NC 27601
Attn.: Chad Beck, P.E.

REF: U-6094 Holly Springs Road - Duke Easement Staking
     Holly Springs, Wake County, NC

Dear Chad:
Bass, Nixon & Kennedy, Inc., (BNK) appreciates the opportunity to submit this proposal to offer
Surveying Services in respect to the above reference subject.

SCOPE OF WORK
  A. STAKE PROPOSED DUKE EASEMENTS (SEE ATTACHED BLUE & RED CLOUDED
     EXTENTS)
  1. Stake proposed Duke easements with wood stakes

Lump Sum Fee “A” ……………………………………………………...……….… $8,000.00

   B. SEPARATE DUKE EASEMENT PLATS (16 PLATS, SEE ATTACHED PARCEL LIST)
   1. Prepare individual standalone plats

Lump Sum Fee “B” …………………………………………………...……….… $16,000.00

Should additional services be required Bass, Nixon & Kennedy, Inc., will bill at the actual cost.
Recordation Fees, Plat Review Fees, Deliveries, Electronic Transmissions, Concrete
Monuments, etc., are not included in the above Fee Proposal. A 2026 Schedule of Rates is
attached for your use.

We expect to start Services within 1-2 weeks after receipt of your acceptance of this Proposal
and notification to our office unless a different time is indicated and agreed upon.

The contract is subject to the Appendix 1 - Terms and Conditions.

This proposal and schedule is valid through August 27, 2026. We reserve the right to renegotiate
the fee if the project is not completed within 18 months of the contract signing date. If these terms
are satisfactory, please sign this proposal and return for our files.

Very truly yours,
Bass, Nixon & Kennedy, Inc.                 Accepted this the __ day of ____________2026.


Dan Gregory, PLS                            BY:____________________________________
Senior Principal Surveyor, VP




                                            Page 1 of 4

                                                                                                Page 217 of 229


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Attachment A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NAD 83



                                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                HOLLEMAN, J. LEE JR.

                                                                                                                                                          300 NORTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                  MAIN STREET, LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MAIN STREET VISTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   APARTMENTS, LLC                                                                                              BLUEFIN DEVELOPERS, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RANDALL S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ADAMSON,LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WINDWARD POINTE

                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                           R/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION, INC.




                                                                                                                                        ST
                                                                                                                                      EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20

                                                                                           W
                                                                                        R/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                     ST
                                                                                   EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAIN STREET VISTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              +16.43                              SANDHAR REAL


                                                                                                                 ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    APARTMENTS, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              111.84' LT                           ESTATE, LLC



                                                                                                             TRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 +44.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 80.37' LT


                                                                                                         N S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +48.07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +40.76

                                                                                                        AI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +14.43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     63.85' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        81.81' LT


                                                                                                     N.M     55)
                                                                                                                                                                                    BEGIN PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           +63.66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        68.58' LT                                                    +61.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            +41.55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MATCHLI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NE -L- STA 23+50 (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEE SHEET GEO-2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -L- POT Sta. 21+51.81 =                                                                                       80.47' LT
                                                                                                                                                                             BEGIN CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             84.95' LT


                                                                                                          NC-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           85.11' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +58.17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +67.50           -Y1- POT Sta. 11+22.58
                                                                                                         (
                                                                                                                                                                          -L- POT Sta. 13+34.24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         68.62' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +83.94
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      68.46' LT         D                                                                                                                   +86.60
                                                                                                                                                                  CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +05.86                                                                                                                                                                                                              +13.53                                                                                                                       68.73' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           +90.00                                   +72.98                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    68.64' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +27.82                     A                                                                     60.04' LT                                                                                                                          +20.58                                                                                                              49.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARKN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IGARE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +53.31             52.50' LT                                60.04' LT
                                                                                                                                                              +57.63                                                            60.72' LT                                                                                       +06.24                                                                                                                              50.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                            +82.75                                      60.72' LT
                                                                                                                                                              44.50' LT                                                                                                         +35.05

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONC DRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                44.50' LT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VE
                                                                                                                                                                                 CONCRETE                                                                                                                                        ASPHAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L
                                                                                                                                                                                     PAD                    53.00' LT                                                           52.50' LT



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ASPHALTDRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXIST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                  5'R                                                                                                                                                  EXIST R/W                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IEWAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L
                                                                                                                                                                                                 SIDEWALK                                                                     SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXIST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                               'R

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONC DRI
                                                                                                                                                                             25

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VE
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                  1'R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20' DW                                                                   20' DW                                          SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    K



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             34.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               20' DW                        24' DW                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST R/W                                                                                                                                                             EXIST R/W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             34.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +60.69                +97.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      22'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    24' DW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  57.76' LT             50.83' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.88' R

                                                                                                                                                                                                   -L-                                                                                                                                                   8'                                                                         10.5'                                               HOLLY SPRINGS ROAD                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10.5'                                                              (SR-1152)                                                                                              35' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.88' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22'                                               22'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             34.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             34.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +60.82              +83.55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             39.50' RT 40.35' RT                                                                                     +72.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GRAV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20' DW                                                            30' DW                                                             20' DW                      20' DW                                                                      30' DW                                                           20' DW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VE           EXIST R/W                                                                                    42.92' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20' DW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30 R           35' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DEWA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GRAVEL&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VE
                                                                                                                                                                                       SI
                                                                                                                                                                                        DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                            K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GRASS DRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXIST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRI



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRI             DRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +91.35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST R/W                                                                                                                                                            +66.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                     +78.38                                                                                                                                                                                                                         +55.08                                                                                    +19.00                                  51.16' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   +41.07                                                                +55.46                               +18.93                                                                         +74.10                                         42.87' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                                                      +02.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                     56.73' RT                                                                                                           59.92' RT                                                                                              44.50' RT                      +81.25                                                         48.12' RT                               +53.63                              0'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   56.75' RT                                                                                                  59.92' RT                                                                   54.92' RT                                         51.70' RT                                                                                                       0'                                                   62.50' RT                               +02.00




K:
 \DUR_Roadway\01
               2329059 - U-6094\Roadway\Proj\GEO Sheet
                                                     s\01
                                                        2329059_GEO_1
                                                                    .dgn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +02.61                                                                              +52.24                                                                                                 +03.95                          61.15' RT                                                      51.70' RT                               40.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                      +79.21                                               +97.24                                                                       +15.07                 +21.30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    63.50' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        67.32' RT                                                                                              44.50' RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                          +93.78                                     +44.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                      65.37' RT                     65.37' RT                  56.77' RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           +39.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      46.81' RT                64.00' RT                                                                                                                    +25.07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               +95.66                                                                                                                                                                                                                             49.00' RT                         +83.00   64.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 +08.81                                                                                                                                                                           +80.09                                                                           41.82' RT                                                                                                         +55.28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      42.87' RT                                                                                                                                                                                                     73.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 67.32' RT                                                                                                 +77.80                                              45.46' RT 39.50' RT                                                                                 48.35' RT                                                                                                         30.00' RT
                                                                                                     -L- POT Sta. 12+00.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           50.78' RT                                                                                                                                                                      17                  +55.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         +27.70                                                                                         56.82' RT                                             +99.79                                                                                                 +59.00                         +45.83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +07.76                                                                                                                                             +46.25                                            73.00' RT      +55.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       46.81' RT                                                                                        +79.50                                              62.90' RT                                                                                                42.84' RT                      30.00' LT                                                                                 KHACHCHAF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                61.15' RT                                                                                                                                          30.00' RT                                       +45.00           49.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        64.00' RT                                          +83.95                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AHMED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50.09' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +80.33                                             46.81' RT                                                                                                                    +90.00                                                                     39.25' RT                                       62.50' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        67.50' RT                                       +79.99                                                                                                                   16     40.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        46.81' RT

                                                                                                                                                     ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13                                                                                                                                                  JETTER, JODI A. +90.00                                                                       +00.00                   +00.00                             BROWN, RICHARD E.


                                                                                                                                                 TRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +00.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                19.70' RT                30.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   17.57' RT                                                                                                                                BROWN, JOHNNIE B.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18.17' LT

                                                                                                                                                                   R/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORRIS, DANNY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30.00' RT


                                                                                                                                             N S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         34.70' RT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NORRIS, EMA                                                                                                                                                                   30.00' LT                                                                      +89.35

                                                                                                                                                                ST
                                                                                                                                            AI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                              EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BEGIN CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20.05' RT
                                                                                                                                  W

                                                                                                                                         N.M     55)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14
                                                                                                                               R/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -Y1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12                                                                                                                                                                        -Y1- POT Sta. 9+80.00                                                                                             +83.98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11

                                                                                                                                              NC-
                                                                                                                            ST
                                                                                                                                                                                            10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25.99' RT

                                                                                                                          EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R/ W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BHANA REAL ESTATE, LLC

                                                                                                                                             (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MORTON, DARRELL E.                                                              JOJE HOLLY, LLC                                                                                                                             BHANA REAL ESTATE, LLC                                                                                                                         +51.58

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EI
                                                                                                                                                                                     HAHN, ELSIE M.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      17A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21.71' RT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GH                          27.74' RT GAVAZZA, PAOLO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -Y1- POT Sta. 9+50.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +50.00    WOLCOTT, BONNIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        22.62' RT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        37.64' RT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BOZICH, VINCENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BOZICH, ERIKA.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PREPARED IN THE OFFICE OF:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20            0                     40




3/30/2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        U-6094 HOLLY SPRINGS ROAD WIDENING
                                                                           REV. No.:     REVISION:                                                                                  DATE:        DRAWN BY:        CHECKED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GEOMETRY SHEETS
                                                                            This document, together with the concepts and designs presented herein, as an instrument of service, is
                                                                            intended only for the specific purpose and client for which it was prepared.                        Reuse of and improper
                                                                            reliance on this document without written authorization and adoption by Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
                                                                            shall be without liability to Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                300 S. MAIN STREET, SUITE 212, HOLLY SPRINGS, NC, 27540                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JOB NUMBER:                                                       SHEET NUMBER:

                                                                            Copyright Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc., 2024                                                                                                                    PHONE: (919) 682-3583                       PE NO. F-0102                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              012329059                                                      GEO-1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Page 218 of 229


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Attachment A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NAD 83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -L-                                        -Y2-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -Y2- POT Sta. 14+29.14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PI Sta 32+02.37                          PI Sta 11+03.42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D                                        D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L = 302.42'                              L = 58.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T = 151.22'                              T = 29.54'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R = 10,000.00'                           R = 250.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             END CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -Y2- POT Sta. 13+50.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -L- POC Sta. 30+76.29 =




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JOHNSON STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20                                                                                                                                                                                                       -Y3- POT Sta. 12+11.79




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCHOOL DRI
                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -L- PC Sta. 30+51.15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WAKE COUNTY BOARD OF EDUCATION
                                                                                                                             WINDWARD POINTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -L- PT Sta. 33+53.57




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SCHOOL DAYS LANE
                                                                                                                               HOMEOWNERS                                                                                                                                                                                      +57.84                                                                                                                                                                     +55.00


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -Y3-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            35




                                                                                                                                                                                                 CAYMAN AVENUE
                                                                                                                             ASSOCIATION, INC.




                                                                                                                                                                        ST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                      EXI                                                     ST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       +70.26                                                                  100.30' LT                                                                                                                                                                 69.37' LT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25.00' RT                                                                  +70.00                                                  +82.95                                                                                                          144.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              +50.00                                                              +77.75                100.88' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       36.75' RT                                                                  49.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              49.00' LT                                                           96.41' LT


                                                                                                                                                                                       -Y2-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       +58.81                                                                     71.00' LT                                                    +94.94
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              71.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        36.74' RT                                                                 122.00' LT              +66.00                           100.08' LT                                                                                                                                                                                            +20.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              100.30' LT
                                                                                                                                         +60.00                                                                                                         +29.51                                                                                            97.00' LT                                                                                                                                                                                                                              69.19' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              122.00' LT
                                                                                                                                         25.01' LT                                                                                                      37.87' RT                                                                             +46.57                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             144.00' LT
                                                                                                                                         32.01' LT                                                                                                                                            +34.62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +33.00                                                                                69.62' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            69.02' LT
                                                                                                                                        +07.78                                                                                                          42.00' RT                                                                                                                                                                 +46.06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           100.30' LT
                                                                                                                                       25.11' LT                                                                                                        +12.75       19                                                                       +45.98                                                        +33.37                83.63' LT
                                                                                                                                     +02.63                                                                                                             24.90' RT                                                                           69.12' LT                                     +93.86
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            90.94' LT              +54.89
                                                                                                                                     30.27' LT                                                                                                          ROUSE, CHRISTOPHER B.                                                                                                             83.88' LT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +89.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +76.56                                                                                        90.75' LT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +89.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEE SHEET GEO-3)
                                                                                                                                      +06.53                                                                                                             ROUSE, JULIEANNE G.                  +50.00                                                                                     +26.28                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        83.50' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     82.30' LT                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20' R                                                                          +05.96                                                                   +93.28                 50.27' LT
                                                                                                                                       37.43' LT                                                                                                                                  +21.75    49.00' LT




                                                                                 MATCHLI
                                                                                       NE -L- STA 23+50 (
                                                                                                        SEE SHEET GEO-1
                                                                                                                      )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         84.07' LT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +41.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +29.51                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                67.51' LT                                                                54.30' LT              70.48' LT
                                                                                                                                         +13.09                                                                                                 +09.87                        49.00' LT     71.00' LT                                                                                                                            +46.07                                                                                                                                                                                                                             85.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +26.19                                                                                                      +34.45                                                                                                                                                                                                              +05.84          +74.27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                24.89' RT                                                                               69.07' LT                                                                                                       +18.67                                                                                                                                                                         +80.61
                                                                                                                                         68.84' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +98.25      64.65' LT                                                                                                                                          69.20' LT                                     +31.33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        69.18' LT                                                                                                   69.36' LT                                                                                                                                                                                                              69.21' LT    70.31' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VEWAY                  +12.75                                                                                                                                                                                    +63.25          49.00' LT                                                                                                                                                                      66.95' LT
                                                                                                                                        +08.33                                                                                                                    49.00' LT                                                             +22.57                                                                                                                                 49.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              42.00' RT                                                                                                                                                                                69.21' LT        59.38' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  64.65' LT                                                             49.00' LT                                                                                                                              59.38' LT                                                              14'                                                                                                                                                                                      +89.00
                                                                                                                                        49.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                              13.5'13.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               62.50' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +70.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             +15.00

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DEWALK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NE -L- STA 35+00 (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +09.31                                                                                49.00' LT                               55' R     23' R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       49.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IEWAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  49.00' LT                                                                             71.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ST R/W                                                                                                                                                                                       42' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST R/W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               50' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          K                                                                                                                                                         SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         K                   E ST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XI
                                                                                                                                                                                 35' R                                                                           SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     35' R                                                                              CONCRETE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     28'DRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DWEWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +36.12                                                                                                                                   35' R                                            35' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +49.64                        +71.09

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           34.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 +91.98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   +76.70

                                                                                                                                          34.
                                                                                                                                            5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +53.26                          83.85' LT
                                                                                                                                                  50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       +02.65                                                                                                                                        49.00' LT                     49.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 41.99' RT                                                                                                                          49.00' LT    69.14' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  48.65' RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.75' R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MATCHLI
                                                                                                                                                          3.75'R                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.75' R                     10.5' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -L-
                                                                                                                                     1.5'                                                                                                                                                                                           10.5'                                                                                                                  10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.5'                                                                                  HOLLY SPRINGS                                               -L-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ROAD (SR-1152)                                                                     10.5'                                             1.5'

                                                                                                                                          34.
                                                                                                                                            5'    50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        34.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5'
                                                                                                                                                                 +03.55                                                                      3.75' R

                                                                                                                                                                 49.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                           VEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRI
                                                                                                                                                        GRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1'R

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DEW A
                                                                                                                             20' DW                        VE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20' DW
                                                                                                                            GRAVEL                       DRI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               35' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                35' R                                                                                                                                                        SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IEWAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L
                                                                                                                                                                                  30' R                           30' R                                              EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ST R/W                                                                                                                                                                                         EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ST R/W
                                                                                                                            DRI
                                                                                                                              VE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SIDEWALK



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +04.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +13.03                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +22.83                                                                                                                                         E ST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  49.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  49.00' RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  49.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +01.99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +68.00




K:
 \DUR_Roadway\01
               2329059 - U-6094\Roadway\Proj\GEO Sheet
                                                     s\01
                                                        2329059_GEO_2.
                                                                     dgn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +43.62                         49.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        68.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             +84.05                                                                            +75.00                                                                                                                                                   +19.89                                                        55.73' RT                                                 +50.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -L- POT Sta. 24+58.52 =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R/ W
                                                                                                                                                                                      L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25

                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                    VE
                                                                                                                                                                                 GRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             49.00' RT                                                                         68.00' RT                                +38.68                                                                                                         55.42' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                 DRV
                                                                                                                                                                                   IE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '1'                                                                                                                                                                     61.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                  12' 12'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             +16.00                                                                 +53.57                       +00.00


                                                                                                                                                                                                   ST R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -Y2- POT Sta. 12+33.76                                                                                                                                                                                                       30.00' LT                                                                                                                                           +95.90



                                                                                                                                                                                 -Y2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             +84.12                                                                               MANDHATA, ANKITA                                                                                                                                                            +66.07
                                                                                                                                             +03.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +64.00                                                                                                                                                            369.00' RT                                                              69.00' RT                    69.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             +05.00                                                                                                          66.83' RT                  +30.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                88.10' RT     88.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D                                                                                                                                                                                     PRADHAN, SUCHANDAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                        /W
                                                                                                                                             73.00' RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              +37.23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              +03.55                    66.00' RT                                  87.00' RT                                                                                                                                                                                  55.25' RT     55.28' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             75.00' RT                                                                                                                                                                                                             +68.00                                                                                                                           30.00' RT



                                                                                                                                                                                    - COL
                                                                                                                                                 +17.00                                                                                                                                                                                                         66.73' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              +62.06                                                                                                                                        +39.00                                                                 104.00' LT                                                                                                                     +00.00
                                                                                                                                                 75.00' RT                                                                                                                                                                                                         +04.12                                                                                                          +32.00    +12.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              32.26' RT                                                                                                                                     87.00' RT                                                                                                                                                                                             36.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                 +59.78                                                                                                                                                                                                           66.73' RT                                                                                                        30.00' LT 30.00' LT



                                                                                                                                                                                         LI
                                                                                                                            +59.00                                                                                                            +52.32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   51.00' LT 51.00' LT



                                                                                                                                                                                          NS S
                                                                                                                                                 30.00' LT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ST R/W                                               ST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              30.00' RT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXI
                                                                                                                            87.00' RT



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXI
                                                                                                                                                  +00.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +06.00                                                                                                                                 26
                                                                                                                                                 40.00' LT                                                                                      -Y2- PT Sta. 11+32.69                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              40.00' LT




                                                                                                                                                                                              TREE
                                                                                                                                                 +79.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     APA HOLLY SPRINGS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -Y3-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         +99.35
                                                                                                                                                 87.00' RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25A                                                                                                                         PROPERTIES, LLC                                                          LEO DEVELOPMENT LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         35.12' RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +66.00                                                                                             +66.00
                                                                                                                                         21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               22.17' RT                                                                                             23.70' RT



                                                                                                                                                                                                   T
                                                                                                                          MORTON, SARAH W.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MASTON,  JILLIAN R.                                                                                      30.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             +51.00 ROBERT W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MASTON,                                                                                                  +51.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ATWATER, AMON J.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22.57' LT                                                                                              23.51' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              40.00' LT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JOHNSON STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ATWATER, GERALDINE J.                                                                      ATWATER, AMON J.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           36.00' RT                                                                                                                                      28
                                                                                                                              21A                                                                                                                                                                                                       ATWATER, GERALDINE J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -Y2- PC Sta. 10+73.87                                                                                                                                                                                                    BEGIN CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JONES, RICHARD L.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JONES, TERRY J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -Y3- POT Sta. 10+66.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ATWATER, AMON J.                                                                                                                                                        10
                                                                                                                          21B+11.00 1
                                                                                                                                    0                                                                                                  +11.00                                                  ATWATER, GERALDINE J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18.73' RT
                                                                                     18.81' LT
                                                                           BOZICH, VINCENT.                                                                                                                                            30.00' RT
                                                                                     30.00' LT
                                                                            BOZICH, ERIKA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BEGIN CONSTRUCTION

                                                                                                                                     +00.00                                                                                             -Y2- POT Sta. 10+17.63
                                                                                                                                     18.55' LT
                                                                                                                                     32.95' LT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -Y3- POT Sta. 10+00.00



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -Y2- POT Sta. 10+00.00


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       22A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W HITE, CASEY LYNN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GRANACK, WILLIAM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 +85.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 25.36' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30.00' RT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PREPARED IN THE OFFICE OF:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20       0                   40




3/30/2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    U-6094 HOLLY SPRINGS ROAD WIDENING
                                                                            REV. No.:                                       REVISION:                                                                                                                                     DATE:          DRAWN BY:      CHECKED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GEOMETRY SHEETS
                                                                             This document, together with the concepts and designs presented herein, as an instrument of service, is
                                                                             intended only for the specific purpose and client for which it was prepared.                                                                                                             Reuse of and improper
                                                                             reliance on this document without written authorization and adoption by Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
                                                                             shall be without liability to Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        300 S. MAIN STREET, SUITE 212, HOLLY SPRINGS, NC, 27540                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JOB NUMBER:                                                     SHEET NUMBER:

                                                                             Copyright Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc., 2024                                                                                                                                                                                                           PHONE: (919) 682-3583                       PE NO. F-0102                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     012329059                                                          GEO-2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Page 219 of 229


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Attachment A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NAD 83


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -Y4- POT Sta. 21+00.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -L- PI Sta. 35+91.84                                                                         -L- PI Sta. 38+49.97                                                                                                         -L- POT Sta. 43+45.58 =                                                                                                                                      32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -Y4- POC Sta. 19+49.16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JONES,RICHARD L.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          J ONES,TERRY J.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               31

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RHAMKATTE                                                                                                                                                                             -Y4- PT Sta. 19+69.42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          40                           PARTNERS, LLC


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ST R
                                                                                                                                                            35

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -L- POT Sta. 43+45.59 =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -Y4- POC Sta. 19+47.59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30
                                                                                                                                                                                       29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RHAMKATTE
                                                                                                                                                                                   RHAMKATTE                                 PARTNERS, LLC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -Y4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                  PARTNERS, LLC



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          +22.07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MATCHLI



                                                                                                                  MATCHLI
                                                                                                                        NE -L- STA 35+00 (
                                                                                                                                         SEE SHEET GEO-2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NE -L- STA 45+00 (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          44.14' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                    +91.20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          +48.13                              +10.36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 +53.37               +03.40
                                                                                                                                                                                    62.50' LT                                                                                                         +49.97
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 62.50' LT            62.50' LT                                                                     62.50' LT                           52.15' LT                                                                                             +09.55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEE SHEET GEO-4)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      62.50' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              61.50' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              67.00' LT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E ST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E ST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXIST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SIDEWALK

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 35' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45' R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HOLLY SPRINGS                                                                                          -L-
                                                                                                                                                                           -L-                                                                                                                                                                    ROAD (SR-1152)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 35.                                                5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  46.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         56'                                                                 62'                                                                                                                                                             +32.30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50.35' RT

                                                                                                                                                                          20' R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              62.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                 15' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20' R                                    SIDEWALK                                                                                                                              30' R                             30' R                        SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30' R                                                                                                                          SIDEWALK

                                                                                                                                                                                                SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              50' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXIST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   +35.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXIST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   64.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   +52.00

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +25.00             62.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   +49.44
                                                                                                                                                             +34.00                               +91.77                                                      +29.80                                                                                                                                              +10.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   64.00' RT                                                                                                                                                                                           +67.07                                                                                                                   70.50' RT




K:
 \DUR_Roadway\01
               2329059 - U-6094\Roadway\Proj\GEO Sheet
                                                     s\01
                                                        2329059_GEO_3.
                                                                     dgn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LAKE
                                                                                                                                                             61.00' RT                            49.00' RT                                                   50.25' RT                                                                                                                                           71.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   +70.73         +88.00                                                                                                                 15' R                                                   72.63' RT                                                                                                                    +16.84      35
                                                                                                                                                                 +46.00                                       +51.00                                        +25.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  49.84' RT                                                                                             7.5' R                                                                       +71.17                                                                                                                   62.00' RT



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BASS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   49.83' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DEW AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66.50' RT                                                                                                                                                            +17.00                                                  +14.29
                                                                                                                                                                 74.00' RT                                    66.50' RT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 +70.84                                                                                                                                                FIRST NATIONAL BANK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       +07.16                                      54.80' RT      54.86' RT                               +53.00                                                                                                                                     61.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  80.00' RT                                               61.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -Y4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DEW AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             +68.97                                                                     61.00' RT                    +88.25                                                                                                                     OF PENNSYLVANIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  58.65' RT                               91.00' RT



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                393)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       52.79' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          67.19' RT                                                                                                                             +48.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             91.00' RT                                                                                               83.50' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +83.00                                   +87.48                                                                                                +56.00



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SR-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         +91.91                                                                                                                                  64.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  64.00' RT                                                                                                                                                                             +52.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             +41.00        71.00' RT                                                                                             78.50' RT               67.12' RT                                                                                                                              +59.24

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  91.00' RT                                                                                                                                                                             52.00' LT



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             108.00' RT                                                                                                                                  82.19' RT          +54.82                                                                                                              49.22' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +95.00                                                     34                                                        ''                                                                                                                                                                                        +20.91
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        00
                                                                                                                                                                                      33                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .                                                                                44.11' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     108.00' RT                                                                                                                                   T                                                                                                                                                                   45.90' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         +50.67
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EVANS HOLLY SPRINGS, LLC                                                                          M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SE                                                          44.05' LT                                                                                                    +00.00
                                                                                                                                                                      TIMBER SPRINGS ASSOCIATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NE 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      67.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                         LIMITED PARTNERSHIP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LI 75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PI PG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AL 566                                                                                                                                                                              +50.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NI .



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R/ W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LO D.B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      62.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            'C                                                 LE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50                                                 AB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -6)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GEO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -Y4-                                                                                                                                    EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M 140
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SE .1                                                                        0 SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EA PG                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1+5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LI 00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PISa1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t 6+690
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TI .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     U . M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Y4- S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HLNE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D                                                                                                                                                                    TC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          L= 630.64'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T = 3302
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 . 5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R = 8600
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PREPARED IN THE OFFICE OF:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20              0                       40




5/26/2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   U-6094 HOLLY SPRINGS ROAD WIDENING
                                                                           REV. No.:   REVISION:                                                                                                            DATE:         DRAWN BY:    CHECKED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GEOMETRY SHEETS
                                                                            This document, together with the concepts and designs presented herein, as an instrument of service, is
                                                                            intended only for the specific purpose and client for which it was prepared.                                                   Reuse of and improper
                                                                            reliance on this document without written authorization and adoption by Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
                                                                            shall be without liability to Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    300 S. MAIN STREET, SUITE 212, HOLLY SPRINGS, NC, 27540                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JOB NUMBER:                                                           SHEET NUMBER:

                                                                            Copyright Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc., 2024                                                                                                                                        PHONE: (919) 682-3583                       PE NO. F-0102                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    012329059                                                                                    GEO-3



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 220 of 229


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Attachment A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -L-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PI Sta 58+76.73                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N AD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L = 345.99'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T = 172.99'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R = 50,000.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           50

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RGK HOLLY SPRINGS, LLC


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FLI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NT POI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HOLLY SPRINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NT LANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PLACE, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               +97.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            +29.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               132.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            132.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               173.56' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            168.23' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -Y5-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20 ' DW                                                                                        -Y5- POT Sta. 12+00.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BUTLER, ANTHONY W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BLUEFIN DEVELOPERS, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -L- PT Sta. 60+49.72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           49
                                                                                                                                                           32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +23.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUTLER,
                                                                                                                                                   JONES, RICHARD L.                                                                 78.00' LT                                                      +15.52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ANTHONY W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              +40.26                                                                                      -L- POT Sta. 56+77.02 =
                                                                                                                                                    JONES, TERRY J.                                                                  86.00' LT                                                      84.85' LT                                                                 111.21' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -Y5- POT Sta. 11+00.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DECK                                                                                                             +26.87                    +52.13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +42.28                                                                                                                                       111.14' LT



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   84.38' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +11.24                                                                             +22.40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  78.00' LT                              +31.15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                81.88' LT                                                             +11.97       86.63' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E                   +53.00                            79.98' LT                       +65.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     STI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NG                                                                                             92.12' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H                   72.00' LT                         +30.84                          92.00' LT




                                                                                       MATCHLI
                                                                                             NE -L- STA 50+50 (
                                                                                                              SEE SHEET GEO-4)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                               +79.00                                                          +10.52                    76.78' LT                        +59.55
                                                                                                                                                                                               86.00' LT                                                        74.29' LT                                                 86.44' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DECK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -L- PC Sta. 57+03.74
                                                                                                                                                                                             +79.26
                                                                                                                                                                                 +47.22      49.00' LT                               WOO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +03.50                 +26.78
                                                                                                                                                                                 61.50' LT                         CONCD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CRAMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VE                                                            +28.19                                                                            49.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +08.10                                                                            49.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       49.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                49.00' LT
                                                                                                                                                           EXIST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST R/W                                                                                                                                     EXIST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                SI
                                                                                                                                                                                 DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                     K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                35' R                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST R/W                                                                           SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       K


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            35' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20' DW                                                                                20' DW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXIST R/W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          34.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.5' R

                                                                                                                                                  10.5'         -L-                                                                                                                                                                1.5'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11.5'          10.5' 10.5'                                                                                                 HOLLY SPRINGS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          34.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         34.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ROAD (SR-1152)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST R/W
                                                                                                                                                          EXIST R/W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         36' DW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    35' R                                                  35' R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXIST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXIST R/W                                                                                                                                                    EXIST R/W
                                                                                                                                    SIDEWALK              39                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 K                                                                    SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DEWAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K




K:
 \DUR_Roadway\01
               2329059 - U-6094\Roadway\Proj\GEO Sheet
                                                     s\01
                                                        2329059_GEO_5.
                                                                     dgn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONCRETE                 CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VEWAY
                                                                                                                                               TOWN OF HOLLY SPRINGS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            +15.16                                                                                                                   +84.00           DRIVEWAY                  DRIVEWAY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21'                                       51.50' RT                                                                                     +70.00                     55.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +48.00                                                        32.65' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              +00.88                                                                                                                                                                                               LSA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       +44.00                                                                                                                                                                   62.00' RT                                                     51.50' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              72.00' RT                                         +89.00

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       68.00' RT                                                                                                                                                  45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +50.00                                          80.00' RT   +30.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               69.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BROWN, JEREMIAH                                 80.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +51.24                                                                                                 BROWN, CANDICE                                          +54.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     82.84' RT                                                                                                                                                      68.00' RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                END PROJECT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GRASSY MEADOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST R/ W                                                     EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ST R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                END CONSTRUCTION                                                                  +71.00                                     BK

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            44                                                                                                                                                  -L- POT Sta. 59+77.00                                                             117.00' RT



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -Y5-                            ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            42                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           +72.00                                                                                                                      AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         121.00' RT                                                                                                                 UNI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VERASTEGUI-CASTILLO,                                                               ROSELLI, JOSEPH T. III                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SBKD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SANDRA                                                                       ROSELLI, TIFFANY A.                                                                                                                     BEGIN CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      46
                                                                                                                                                                                                              FISHER, MARCELINE L.                                                                      43                                                                                                                                                                             -Y5- POT Sta. 10+30.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SANDHAR REAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONTRERAS, PABLO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ESTATE, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONTRERAS, BERTILA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -Y5- POT Sta. 10+00.00
                                                                                                                                                                         40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GATES, TIMOTHY JON


                                                                                                                                                                TOWN OF HOLLY SPRINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PREPARED IN THE OFFICE OF:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT:



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20       0              40




3/30/2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    U-6094 HOLLY SPRINGS ROAD WIDENING
                                                                           REV. No.:                                    REVISION:                                                                     DATE:   DRAWN BY:       CHECKED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GEOMETRY SHEETS
                                                                            This document, together with the concepts and designs presented herein, as an instrument of service, is
                                                                            intended only for the specific purpose and client for which it was prepared.                                          Reuse of and improper
                                                                            reliance on this document without written authorization and adoption by Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
                                                                            shall be without liability to Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   300 S. MAIN STREET, SUITE 212, HOLLY SPRINGS, NC, 27540                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JOB NUMBER:                                      SHEET NUMBER:

                                                                            Copyright Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc., 2024                                                                                                                                       PHONE: (919) 682-3583                       PE NO. F-0102                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         012329059                                                 GEO-5



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 221 of 229


5/22/26, 9:56 AM                                                                               Property Report – Holly Springs Road Widening- Central                                   Attachment A

      Holly Springs Road Widening- Central — Property Report
      Status Filter: Pre-Condemnation | 16 properties
      Generated: May 22, 2026 at 1:55 PM


        Town Project #                                    Est. Construction Start                             Acquisition % Complete                        Statutory Authority
        18-001                                            09/21/2026                                          0 / 16 properties (0%)                        (1) Opening, widening, extending, or
                                                                                                                                                            improving roads, streets, alleys, and
                                                                                                                                                            sidewalks. The authority contained in this
                                                                                                                                                            subsection is in addition to the authority to
                                                                                                                                                            acquire rights-of-way for streets, sidewalks
                                                                                                                                                            and highways under Article 9 of Chapter
                                                                                                                                                            136. The provisions of this subdivision (1)
                                                                                                                                                            shall not apply to counties.

       #      Street Address                                            Owner(s)                                                     Town Appraised Val          Appraiser Val             Amount Settled
       1      0 Collins St                                              Amon J Atwater, Geraldine J Atwater                                             —                    —                           —
       2      0 Holly Springs Rd                                        Anthony W Butler                                                                —                    —                           —
       3      0 Holly Springs Rd                                        Amon J Atwater, Geraldine J Atwater                                             —                    —                           —
       4      100 Timber Springs Ct                                     Springs Assoc Lmtd Prtnshp Timber                                               —           $29,500.00                           —
       5      10332 Holly Springs Rd                                    Anthony W Butler                                                                —           $52,125.00                           —
       6      104 Bass Lake Rd                                          Holly Springs Llc Evans                                                         —         $174,350.00                            —
       7      109 Holly Springs Road                                    Lee Holleman Jr.                                                        $2,365.00                    —                           —
       8      124 Holly Springs Rd                                      JOJE HOLLY, LLC                                                                 —           $37,125.00                           —
       9      152 Holly Springs Rd                                      Jodi Ann Jetter                                                                 —           $57,475.00                           —
       10     216 Holly Springs Rd                                      Sarah Wright Heirs Morton                                                       —           $66,675.00                           —
       11     300 Cayman Ave                                            Christopher Blair Rouse, Julieanne G. Rouse                                     —           $63,635.00                           —
       12     324 N. Main Street                                        Main Street Vista Apartments, LLC                                               —                    —                           —
       13     412 Holly Springs Rd                                      Amon J Atwater, Geraldine J Atwater                                             —         $121,925.00                            —
       14     500 Holly Springs Rd                                      Holly Springs Properties Llc Apa                                                —           $32,925.00                           —
       15     716 Holly Springs Rd                                      Venkatesh Bollisetty, Raghu Varma Dantuluri,                                    —           $20,875.00                           —
                                                                        Ravi Varma Dantuluri, Sampath Kumar
                                                                        Tadikonda, Krishna R. Vegiraju
       16     717 Holly Springs Rd                                      Richard Lane Jones, Terry Jackson Jones                                         —           $13,775.00                           —
                                                                                               Grand Total — 16 properties                      $2,365.00         $670,385.00                            —

      Holly Springs Road Widening- Central | Status: Pre-Condemnation                                                                                                             Printed: 05/22/2026 1:55 PM




                                                                          SCOPE "B" PARCEL LIST
                                                                          TO BE SEPARATE PLATS

https://land.schifano.com/index.php?page=projects_print_report&id=44&status=pre_condemnation                                                                                                                    1/1
                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 222 of 229


                                       Holly Springs Town Council
                                             Town Council Meeting Agenda Cover Sheet


                                                                        Agenda Item#: 14.
Public Hearings
Title: Consideration of a Moratorium on Data Centers
Strategic Priority Area: Growth Management & Economic Vitality
Staff Resource: Sean Ryan, Development Services


Action(s):

    • Conduct Public Hearing.
    • Consider adoption of Ordinance 26-19 to approve a 12-month moratorium on the
      acceptance, processing, and approval of development applications for data centers,
      cryptocurrency mining, data processing, and other uses associated with data centers as
      specific uses within the Town of Holly Springs corporate limits and its extraterritorial
      jurisdiction.

Explanation:

    • The purpose of the proposed moratorium is to allow the Town sufficient time to study,
      develop, and consider appropriate amendments to the Unified Development Ordinance
      (UDO) and related policies addressing the unique land use, infrastructure, environmental,
      and operational characteristics of data center development.
    • These considerations may include, but are not limited to, impacts on water consumption,
      energy demand, backup power generation, noise, land use compatibility, and
      transportation infrastructure.

Background:

    • NCGS §160D-107 allows local governments to adopt temporary moratoria on any
      development approval required by law, except for the purpose of developing and adopting
      new or amended plans or development regulations governing residential uses.
    • The duration of any moratorium shall be reasonable in light of the specific conditions that
      warrant imposition of the moratorium and may not exceed the period of time necessary
      to correct, modify, or resolve such conditions.
    • Should the Town determine that the issues and conditions giving rise to the moratorium
      have been resolved before the established termination date, the Town Council may repeal
      or lift the moratorium prior to its expiration.
    • Any development regulation establishing a development moratorium must include, at the
      time of adoption, each of the following:
            o A statement of the problems or conditions necessitating the moratorium and what
               courses of action, alternative to a moratorium, were considered by the local
               government and why those alternative courses of action were not deemed
               adequate.
                                                                    Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                     June 16, 2026

                                                                                       Page 223 of 229


          o A statement of the development approvals subject to the moratorium and how a
            moratorium on those approvals will address the problems or conditions leading to
            imposition of the moratorium.
          o A date for termination of the moratorium and a statement setting forth why that
            duration is reasonably necessary to address the problems or conditions leading to
            imposition of the moratorium.
          o A statement of the actions, and the schedule for those actions, proposed to be
            taken by the local government during the duration of the moratorium to address
            the problems or conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium.
    • A public hearing of a proposed development moratorium with a duration of 61 days or
      longer must be advertised not less than 10 days nor more than 25 days before the date
      scheduled for the hearing. The notice of public hearing was published on June 5, 2026
      and June 12, 2026.

Funding Source(s):
N/A
Attachment(s):
1.   26-19 DataCenterMoritorium_ORD




                                                                   Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                    June 16, 2026

                                                                                      Page 224 of 229


       Ordinance No.           26-19
       Date Submitted:         June 16, 2026
       Date Adopted:           June 16, 2026

                   AN ORDINANCE INSTITUTING A TEMPORARY
  MORATORIUM ON THE PERMITTING OF DATA CENTERS, DATA PROCESSING FACILITIES,
    CRYPTOCURRENCY MINING OPERATIONS AND ANY USE ASSOCIATED WITH DATA
   PROCESSING FACILITIES WITHIN THE TOWN OF HOLLY SPRINGS, NORTH CAROLINA
           PURSUANT TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTE §160D-107


       WHEREAS, pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §160D-107, Local Governments may adopt an ordinance
authorizing a temporary moratorium on any development approval required by law; and

        WHEREAS, the Town of Holly Springs Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) definition for “Data
Center” is inadequate for the modern meaning of a Data Center and contemplates data centers being for
a particular business, as opposed to independent, stand-alone data centers that serve multiple business
or industrial uses where it is likely that power and water utility provisioning require expansion; and

        WHEREAS, the Town of Holly Springs Town Council at its June 16, 2026 regular meeting held a
public hearing regarding this moratorium in accordance with NCGS §160D-601; and

        WHEREAS, the Town of Holly Springs Town Council believe such a moratorium will protect the
public interest and welfare of the residents of the Town of Holly Springs until such regulations regarding
the aforementioned uses are adopted

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Holly Springs Town Council of the Town of Holly
Springs, North Carolina:

Part 1: A temporary moratorium is hereby imposed commencing on June 17, 2026 and expiring no later
than June 16, 2027, or upon approval of Unified Development Ordinance amendments regarding data
centers, data processing facilities, cryptocurrency mining operations, and uses associated with data
processing facilities in the Town of Holly Springs Unified Development Ordinance. This moratorium
specifically includes corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction. For the purposes of this moratorium,
a data center, data processing facility, or cryptocurrency mining operation is a building, a dedicated space
within a building, or group of buildings housing computer systems and associated components, such as
telecommunication and data processing systems, to be used for remote storage, processing, or
distribution of large amounts of data, often times where existing utilities are inadequate to support the
use associated with the data center. Examples of such data include, but are not limited to, computationally
intensive applications such as cryptocurrency mining, artificial intelligence (A.I.) computing, weather
modeling, genome sequencing, application hosting, cloud storage, video and technical streaming
services, etc. This moratorium shall not apply to on-site data processing equipment or server rooms that
are clearly incidental and subordinate to a permitted principal use and are intended solely to support the




                                                                                                     Page 225 of 229


on-site operations of such principal use, provided that such equipment or server rooms comply with all
applicable provisions of the Town of Holly Springs UDO.


Part 2: In compliance with the requirements of N.C. Gen. Stat. §160D-107, the Town of Holly Springs
makes the following statements:

   1) Modern Data centers, data processing facilities, cryptocurrency mining operations, and any other
      uses associated with data processing facilities require considerable amounts of electricity and
      water usage, which can result in greenhouse gas emissions, as well as additional pollution, e-
      waste, noise, and other local impacts to residents and communities living near the facilities. The
      Town of Holly Springs finds it necessary to review and modify zoning standards and mitigation
      methods to address these intensive land use types that may cause detrimental harm to the natural
      environment and the quality of life of Town residents. The Town seeks time to develop such
      standards.

       The Town has looked at alternative solutions to a moratorium, including a recently adopted
       amendment the UDO to modify the process for seeking approvals of Data Centers to a Conditional
       Zoning District, however no additional alternative solutions exist to provide the Town of Holly
       Springs the time necessary to review and modify zoning standards and mitigation methods. The
       Town has determined that the definition of Data Center in the UDO does not consider modern
       data centers for business operations, data processing facilities, or computationally intensive
       applications such as cryptocurrency mining, artificial intelligence (A.I.) computing, weather
       modeling, genome sequencing, application hosting, cloud storage, video and technical streaming
       services, etc. and other uses associated with data processing facility. To simply allow this
       intensive land use to be permitted without regard to location, height, size, density, population,
       industry, residence or other purposes would be counter to the stated goals of Vision Holly Springs
       Town of Holly Springs Comprehensive Plan.

   2) The moratorium shall apply to the acceptance, processing, and/or approval of UDO
      Permit/Applications for data centers, cryptocurrency mining, data processing, and other uses
      associated with data centers as specific uses within the Town of Holly Springs corporate limits
      and its extraterritorial jurisdiction and will provide the Town of Holly Springs the opportunity to
      develop the land use regulations required to mitigate the negative impacts associated with land
      uses described as data centers, data processing facilities, cryptocurrency mining, and any other
      uses associated with data processing facilities such as utility substations, utility mains, and other
      Town and private utilities, the locating of which requires a more planned approach for the Town’s
      future needs notwithstanding the single use of a Data Center.

   3) The moratorium shall begin on June 17, 2026, and shall last until June 16, 2027, or upon a UDO
      amendment addressing the land uses of data centers, data processing facilities, cryptocurrency
      mining, and other uses associated with data processing facilities, whichever comes first. This
      twelve (12) month moratorium is necessary to allow The Town of Holly Springs the time to study
      these uses and their impacts, to consider zoning standards and mitigation methods, utility access
      and provisioning, and to prepare an amendment to the UDO to address data centers, data
      processing facilities, cryptocurrency mining, and other uses associated with data processing
      facilities prior to the expiration of the moratorium.

   4) The Town of Holly Springs will study the impacts of data centers, data processing facilities,
      cryptocurrency mining, and any other uses associated with data processing facilities on
      communities and will also investigate how other communities in North Carolina and across the




                                                                                                  Page 226 of 229


       United States have addressed these impacts through zoning regulations. The Town of Holly
       Springs will develop the land use regulations required to mitigate the negative impacts associated
       with land uses described as data centers, data processing facilities, cryptocurrency mining, and
       any other uses associated with data processing facilities. Subsequently, UDO amendments will
       be proposed which will then follow the legislative process for adoption. The research, policy
       development, and legislative processes necessitate an adequate moratorium time limit of twelve
       (12) months.

Part 3: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES
All ordinances or parts of the Town Code of Ordinances of the Town of Holly Springs conflicting or
inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed.

Part 4: SEVERABILITY
If any section, part of a section, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or word of this Ordinance is for any
reason held or declared to be unconstitutional, inoperative or void, such holdings shall not affect the
remaining portion of this Ordinance and it shall be construed to have been the legislative intent to pass
the Ordinance without such unconstitutional, invalid or inoperative part therein, and the remainder of this
Ordinance after the exclusion of such part or parts shall be deemed to be held valid as if such part or
parts had not been included therein, or if this Ordinance or any of the provisions thereof shall be held
inapplicable to any person, group of persons, property, kind of property, circumstances, or set of
circumstances, such holdings shall not affect the applicability thereof to any other person, property or
circumstances.

Part 5: INCLUSION IN CODE
It is the intention of the Town Council entered as hereby ordained, that the provisions of this Ordinance
shall become and be made part of the Town Code of Ordinances of the Town of Holly Springs, North
Carolina; that the Section(s) of this Ordinance may be renumbered or relettered to accomplish such
intention, and that the word “Ordinance” may be changed to “Section, or “Article” or other word.

Part 6: EFFECTIVE DATE
The provisions of this ordinance shall become effective June 17, 2026 in accordance with the laws of
the State of North Carolina.

Adopted this, the 16th day of June 2026.




Town of Holly Springs by                             ATTEST:

_______________________________                      _____________________________
Michael D. Kondratick, Mayor                         Linda McKinney, Town Clerk




                                                                                                   Page 227 of 229


                                       Holly Springs Town Council
                                            Town Council Meeting Agenda Cover Sheet


                                                                       Agenda Item#: 15.
New Business
Title: Bridge Naming Endorsement in Honor of Deputy Mark R. Tucker
Strategic Priority Area: Vibrant Community
Staff Resource: Linda McKinney, Town Clerk


Action(s):
Adopt Resolution 26-20 endorsing the naming of the Holly Springs Road bridge over 540 in
honor of Deputy Mark R. Tucker.
Explanation:

    • Staff were approached by the Wake County Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge 41, who wish
      to have the bridge on Holly Springs Road over NC540 named in honor of Deputy Mark R.
      Tucker.
    • Holly Springs Road is an NCDOT road and requires a unanimous resolution from the
      municipality in which the bridge is located in order to consider the request.
    • Mr. Frank Malinski presented the request to Council at the May 19, 2026, meeting.
    • Council instructed the Town Clerk to put this item on the June 16, 2026, agenda for
      consideration.

Background:

    • Mark R. Tucker served as a Deputy in the Wake County Sheriff's Department for 24
      years.
    • He was killed in the line of duty on February 12, 2004, approximately 1.4 miles from
      where the bridge stands.
    • The naming of this bridge to honor Deputy Tucker has received broad support from
      members of law enforcement, politicians, religious leaders, and his former colleagues.

Funding Source(s):
N/A
Attachment(s):
1.   Resolution 26-20 Endorsing Bridge Naming in Honor of Deputy Mark Tucker




                                                                    Town Council Business Meeting
                                                                                     June 16, 2026

                                                                                       Page 228 of 229


      Resolution No. 26-20
      Date Adopted: June 16, 2026
      Effective Date: June 16, 2026

                           RESOLUTION ENDORSING BRIDGE NAMING
                            IN HONOR OF DEPUTY MARK R. TUCKER

       WHEREAS, The Town Council of Holly Springs by way of the Wake County Fraternal Order of
Police Lodge 41 has requested the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) to name the
Holly Springs Road bridge over NC540 in honor of Deputy Mark R. Tucker; and

      WHEREAS, Deputy Mark R. Tucker was killed in the line of duty on February 12, 2004 by an
armed assailant; and

        WHEREAS, Deputy Mark R. Tucker began his law enforcement career with the Wake County
Sheriff’s Office on the 23rd day of February 1976; and

       WHEREAS, Deputy Mark R. Tucker served honorably as the Untied States Marshal for the
Eastern District of North Carolina from 1999 to 2002; and

        WHEREAS, Deputy Mark R. Tucker served as the President of the Wake County Fraternal Order
of Police Lodge 41 for 12 years from 1989 to 2002; and

       WHEREAS, NCDOT requires a Resolution of support from the Town of Holly Springs Council to
consider the bridge naming request for the Holly Springs Road bridge.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF HOLLY
SPRINGS, NORTH CAROLINA that the Town Council of Holly Springs endorses the naming of the Holly
Springs Road bridge over NC 540 in honor of Deputy Mark R. Tucker.

Adopted by the Holly Springs Town Council on this, the 16th day of June, 2026.


Town of Holly Springs by                        ATTEST:

_______________________________                 _____________________________
Michael D. Kondratick, Mayor                    Linda McKinney, Town Clerk




                                                                                         Page 229 of 229
