City of Mount Airy Council Chamber

Regular Board Meeting Municipal Building
August 20, 2026 300 South Main Street
6:00 pm Mount Airy, N.C.

This Meeting will be held in the Council Chamber of the Mount Airy Municipal Building and also virtually by viewing through the
following Zoom link:
https://zoom.us/j/95423241615
using password COMA if prompted. You may also view this meeting via Facebook Live by connecting to the
City’s Facebook page The City of Mount Airy, NC. Link will be posted on www.mountairy.org the day of the meeting.

AGENDA
Welcome and Call to Order...... 2.2... .cccecccsseceeseseeeeeesesseseesencesssecsersstssseeessvereersnaeee Mayor Cawley
Invocation...............00008 .Commissioner Vaughn
Pledge of Allegiance... essccccccecseccesseeecessecesscescsceecesseceeceeccsesecersesecereesteseeeesneccats Everyone

Items for Discussion and Possible Action

1) APPROVAL OF AGENDA:

2.) CONSENT AGENDA: The consent agenda is comprised of matters of routine business that do not require
discussion by the Board. Items included on this agenda are indicated with an asterisk (*) and will all be
considered with one motion by the Board. Should a Board member wish to remove an item from the consent
agenda, that item will be considered in its listed place on the agenda.

a) **Approval of Minutes: June 4, 2026 Regular Meeting

3.) PUBLIC HEARINGS:

4.) SPECIAL RECOGNITIONS:

5.) PRESENTATIONS: a) Flood Damage Update: Darren Lewis, City Manager
6.) PUBLIC FORUM:

7.) ITEMS REMOVED FROM CONSENT AGENDA:

8.) OLD BUSINESS:

9.) NEW BUSINESS:
a. Set Public Hearing for 90-Day Extension of Data Center Development Moratorium: Resolution No. 2027-
008
b. Resolution Approving Temporary Suspension of Permit Fees for Flood Damaged Properties: Resolution No.
2027-009

10.) OTHER BUSINESS:

11.) REMARKS BY OFFICIALS:
a, City Council
b. City Manager
c. City Attorney

12.) CLARIFICATION/REBUTTAL BY MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL:
13.) ADJOURNMENT:


MOUNT AIRY, NORTH CAROLINA
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
June 4, 2026

MEMBERS PRESENT: Mayor Pro Tempore Deborah Cochran, Commissioners Chad Hutchens,
David Hall, Calvin Vaughn, and Phil Thacker

MEMBERS ABSENT: Mayor Jon Cawley
Mayor Pro Tempore Deborah Cochran welcomed everyone and called the meeting to order.

APPROVAL OF AMENDED AGENDA:

Commissioner Hall made a motion to remove item 13a (Closed Session) from the agenda and it
was passed unanimously.

Commissioner Hall made a motion to approve the agenda as amended and it was passed
unanimously.

CONSENT AGENDA:
On motion by Commissioner Thacker and passed unanimously, the following items were
approved by way of Consent Agenda:

a) Resolution 2026-081-Resolution Setting Public Hearing-Rezone/Annex Property Located
at 1504 Edgewood Drive:

RESOLUTION NUMBER 2026-081

RESOLUTION SETTING PUBLIC HEARING FOR REQUEST TO REZONE AND ANNEX
PROPERTY LOCATED AT 0 EDGEWOOD DRIVE AND 1504 EDGEWOOD DRIVE

WHEREAS, the City of Mount Airy has been petitioned by Gabriel Torres Jr. to rezone and
annex two parcels (total 1.007-acres) located at 0 Edgewood Drive/1504 Edgewood Drive
from RL-County (Residential Limited) to R-6 Conditional (Residential-Conditional); and

WHEREAS, the Tax Identification Numbers for these properties are 5929-14-44-5975
and 5929-14-44-6994; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Board of the City of Mount Airy has recommended
approval of the request to the Board of Commissioners:

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY OF MOUNT AIRY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING IN OPEN SESSION THAT:

Section lL. A public hearing be scheduled for Thursday, June 18, 2026 at 6:00 pm to hear
public comment on the above-mentioned request.

Section 2. Notice of the public hearing shall be published in the Mount Airy News, a
newspaper having general circulation in the City of Mount Airy, at least ten
(10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.

Section 3. This resolution shall become effective upon approval.


Approved and adopted this the 4t day of June, 2026.

b) Resolution 2026-082-Resolution Directing City Clerk to Investigate a Petition for
Annexation:

RESOLUTION NUMBER 2026-082

RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE CLERK TO INVESTIGATE A
PETITION OF ANNEXATION RECEIVED UNDER G.S. 160A-58.2
0 Edgewood Drive/1504 Edgewood Drive

WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of an area described in said petition
was received on February 24, 2026; and

WHEREAS, G.S 160A-58.2 provides that the sufficiency of the petition shall be
investigated by the City Clerk before further annexation proceedings may take place; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of the City of Mount Airy deems it
advisable to proceed in response to the request for annexation:

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOVED BY THE CITY OF MOUNT AIRY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING IN OPEN SESSION THAT:

The City Clerk is hereby directed to investigate the sufficiency of the above-described
petition and to certify as soon as possible to the Board of Commissioners the result of her
investigation.

Approved and adopted this the 4* day of June, 2026.

c) Resolution 2026-083-Resolution Setting Public Hearing-Amendments to Article X,

Landscaping, Screening. & Buffer Areas of the City of Mount Airy Code of Ordinances:

RESOLUTION NUMBER 2026-083

RESOLUTION SETTING PUBLIC HEARING REGARDING CITY OF MOUNT AIRY ZONING
ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENTS-ARTICLE X, LANDSCAPING, SCREENING, AND
BUFFER AREAS

WHEREAS, the City of Mount Airy proposes to amend Article X of the City of
Mount Airy Zoning Ordinance regarding vehicle display area landscaping exemption as
follows (addition in Bold/Red):

B. Landscaping Yards
Landscaping yards include:
1. Street Yards (Section 10.3)
2. Buffer Yards (Section 10.4)
3. Parking Lot Yards (Section 10.5)
4. Screening Yards (Section 10.6)
5. Building Yards (Section 10.7)
6. Residential Yards (Section 10.8)
C. Exceptions


1. The provisions of Sections 10.3, 10.4, 10.7 and 10.8 shall not apply to
properties in the Municipal Service District.

2. The provisions of Sections 10.5.A, B and C, shall not apply to
vehicle sales, rental and/or lease outdoor display areas.

10.2 General Provisions & Maintenance

A.

All plants shall be installed in accordance with the latest edition of the
American Standards for Nursery Stock, published by the American
Nurserymen’s Association and the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI).

The Planting List can be found in Section 10.10. The Zoning
Administrator may approve alternative trees or shrubs that are native to
the area.

Screening fences or walls shall be maintained by the property owner, in
good condition, throughout the period of the use of the lot.

Required landscaping shall be maintained to mature growth habit and
trees shall not be topped. Any deceased vegetation that is part of a
required landscaping area shall be replaced within sixty (60) days. All
landscaping materials shall be protected from damage by erosion, motor
vehicles or pedestrians.

Ground cover may include any plant materials that reach an average
height of not more than twelve (12”) inches. Alternative materials may be
used in lieu of grass provided they present a finished appearance and
provide reasonably complete coverage at the time of planting.

WHEREAS, the Planning Board of the City of Mount Airy has recommended

approval of the amendments to the Board of Commissioners:

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY OF MOUNT AIRY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING IN OPEN SESSION THAT:

Section I.

Section 2.

Section 3.

A Public Hearing be scheduled for Thursday, June 18, 2026 at 6:00 pm to hear
public comments on the above-mentioned request.

Notice of the Public Hearing shall be published in the Mount Airy News, a
newspaper having general circulation in the City of Mount Airy, at least ten

(10) days prior too the date of the Public Hearing.

This resolution shall become effective upon approval.

Approved and adopted this the 4 day of June, 2026.

d) Resolution 2026-084-Resolution Approving Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC Easement:

RESOLUTION NUMBERR 2026-084


RESOLUTION APPROVING DUKE ENERGY CAROLINAS, LLC EASEMENT

WHEREAS, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC will relocate a power pole and power line
across City-owned property located at 314 Franklin Street (PIN 502015646707) for the
purpose of serving the future restaurant to be located inside the Barrel Building at the
Spencers Mill Redevelopment site; and

WHEREAS, Duke Energy is requesting an easement across the above-mentioned
City-owned property for this project; and

WHEREAS, it is staff recommendation for approval of an easement between the City
of Mount Airy and Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC for said project:

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY OF MOUNT AIRY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETING IN OPEN SESSION THAT:

Section 1. The Board of Commissioners does hereby approve the proposed Easement
between the City of Mount Airy and Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC for the

above-mentioned project.

Section 2. The Board of Commissioners does hereby authorize the Mayor to execute the
Easement per review and approval by the City Attorney.

Section 3. This resolution shall become effective upon approval.
Approved and adopted this the 4* day of June, 2026.
(end of consent agenda)

PUBLIC HEARINGS:

a) Request for Municipal Service District Boundary Expansion:

Darren Lewis, City Manager stated that MAD, Inc is requesting the City to expand the
Municipal Service District Boundary to include five parcels. They have spoken with the three
owners of the five parcels regarding the possibility to include them in the MSD District and
all three owners are in agreement to be included. It is staff recommendation to approve the

expansion of the MSD Boundary.

Mayor Pro Tempore Cochran declared the Public Hearing open for comments. Seeing no
speakers, Mayor Pro Tempore Cochran declared the Public Hearing closed.

PUBLIC FORUM:
Mayor Pro Tempore Cochran declared the Public Forum open for comments.

Speaker: Informed the Board of needed safety upgrades to the Blackmon Amphitheater
grounds. Improvements include handrails, pavement repairs, and fixing rutted areas that
have caused people to fall. Two people have already been injured on the uneven dance floor,
which also needs to be addressed.


Speaker: Spoke about how recent harassment toward himself and other business owners has
changed how they want to address downtown concerns. Remains concerned about public
safety, extremist messaging, predatory behavior, and other issues, but no longer intend to
repeatedly bring them to the Board’s attention because they feel meaningful action is
unlikely. Strongly opposes hatred, discrimination, exploitation, and victimization. Those
who bring these concerns up plan to redirect their efforts toward avenues where they believe
they can make a positive difference. Asked the Board to take a stance against hate and
abuse.

Speaker: Has noticed a lot of graffiti, stickers, and vandalism in Mount Airy. Wonders why it
is okay for lawlessness to happen in the City. Mentioned stickers with Nazi wording in the
downtown area. The Board is supposed to be elected leaders speaking on citizens behalf but
allow businesses to be vandalized.

Seeing no other speakers, Mayor Pro Tempore Cochran declared the Public Forum closed.

NEW BUSINESS:

a) Resolution 2026-085-Resolution Awarding Franklin Street Streetseape Project Phase Il
Contract:

On motion by Commissioner Hutchens and passed unanimously, Resolution 2026-085 was

approved.
RESOLUTION NUMBER 2026-085

RESOLUTION AWARDING FRANKLIN STREET STREETSCAPE PROJECT PHASE II
CONTRACT

WHEREAS, the City of Mount Airy received grants to assist with the Franklin Street
Streetscape Project Phase I1-$500,000 grant through the Appalachian Regional Commission
and $487,500 through North Carolina Commerce Rural Transportation grant; and

WHEREAS, the project with include the installation of new granite curbing,
decorative sidewalks, lighting, and asphalt; and

WHEREAS, bids for the project were advertised in March 2026 but were not open
due to not receiving the State Statute required number of three bids; and

WHEREAS, the project was readvertised and opened in May 2026 with results as
follows:

Contractor: Total Bid:
Sowers Construction Co. - Mount Airy, NC $1,459,700
Inland Construction Co. — Abingdon, VA $1,576,200

WHEREAS, it is staff recommendation to award the Franklin Street Streetscape
Project Phase II to Sowers Construction Co. for the bid amount of $1,459,700 with a total
budget amount of $1,532,685 to allow for contingencies:


NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY OF MOUNT AIRY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS MEETINGNG IN OPEN SESSION THAT:

Section 1. The Board of Commissioners does hereby award the Franklin Street
Streetscape Project Phase H to Sowers Construction Co. for the bid amount of
$1,459,700 with a total budget amount of $1,532,685 to allow for any
contingencies.

Section 2. The Board of Commissioners does hereby authorize the Mayor to execute said
construction contract per review and approval by t4eh City Attorney.

Section 3. This resolution shall become effective upon approval.
Approved and adopted this the 4% day of June, 2026.

b) Ordinance 2026-045-Project Ordinance Amendment-Mill District Streetscape Phase IT
Grant Project:
On motion by Commissioner Thacker and passed unanimously, Ordinance 2026-045 was
approved.
ORDINANCE NUMBER 2026-045
PROJECT ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
FOR
MILL DISTRICT STREETSCAPE PHASE II GRANT PROJECT

WHEREAS the City of Mount Airy approved a project ordinance for the Mill District Streetscape Phase II
project on February 6, 2025;

AND WHEREAS it is necessary to amend this Project Ordinance because bids for the project
have been received and project costs have increased since the original estimates were
prepared;

BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of the City of Mount Airy, North Carolina, that,
pursuant to Section 13.2 of Chapter 159 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the project ordinance
is hereby amended as follows:

Section 3
The following amounts are appropriated for the project:

Economic and physical development $ 140, 169

Section 4
The following revenues are anticipated to be available to complete this project:

Transfer from Capital Investment Fund 140,169
$ 140,169


Section 5

The Finance Officer is hereby directed to maintain within the Project Fund sufficient specific
detailed accounting records to satisfy the requirements of the grantor agency, the grant
agreements, and state regulations.

Section 6

Funds may be advanced from the General Fund for the purpose of making payments as due.
Reimbursement requests should be made to the grantor agency in an orderly and timely
manner.

Section 7
Copies of this project ordinance shall be furnished to the Clerk to the Governing Board, and to
the Budget Officer and the Finance Officer for direction in carrying out this project.

Adopted this 4™ day of June, 2026.

e) Ordinance 2026-046-Budget Ordinance Amendment-Franklin Street Streetscape Project
Phase II:
On motion by Commissioner Hall and passed unanimously, Ordinance 2026-046 was approved.

ORDINANCE NUMBER 2026-046
BUDGET ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

WHEREAS the City of Mount Airy adopted the 2025-26 budget on June 12, 2025;

AND WHEREAS the City of Mount Airy has received bids for the contract for Franklin Street
Phase Il;

AND WHEREAS it is necessary to amend the budget ordinance in order to appropriate funds for
the contract;

AND WHEREAS General Statute 159-15 of the North Carolina Government Fiscal Control Act
provides authority to amend a current municipal budget;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained that authorization is hereby given to make the following

adjustments:
Increase

(Decrease)
Section 1. General Fund Appropriations
Public Works 555,765
555,765
Section 2. General Fund Revenue Estimates
Appropriation of Fund Balance - Powell 555,765
"585,765

Adopted this 4" day of June, 2026.

d) Ordinance 2026-047-Ordinance to Extend Municipal Service District Boundary (Vote # 1):
On motion by Commissioner Hutchens and passed unanimously, Ordinance 2026-047 was
approved.


ORDINANCE NUMBER 2026-047

ORDINANCE EXTENDING MUNICIPAL SERVICE DISTRICT BOUNDARY
Vote Number One

WHEREAS Article 23, Chapter 160A of the North Carolina General Statutes
authorizes the City Council of any city within the State of North Carolina to define one or
more service districts for the purposes enumerated in the act and to annex territory to any
service district pursuant to the procedures therein described; and

WHEREAS on June 24, 1975 the Board of Commissioners of the City of Mount Airy
adopted a resolution creating a Municipal Service District embracing much of downtown
Mount Airy; and

WHEREAS the Board of Commissioners of the City of Mount Airy deems it desirable
and to the best interest of all of the citizens of the City of Mount Airy to extend the
boundaries of the Municipal Service District so created; and

WHEREAS the Board of Commissioners of the City of Mount Airy has caused a
report to be prepared containing a map of the proposed extensions to the Municipal Service
District with the boundaries of said extensions outline thereon and a statement showing that
the proposed extensions meet standards and requirements of North Carolina General Statutes
160A-538 and has proposed a plan for extending services to such areas to be annexed; and

WHEREAS the report, as prepared, was filed in the office of the Clerk and was
available for public inspection for at least two weeks before June 4, 2026, the date established
for public hearing thereon; and

WHEREAS, notice of the public hearing was published once, not less than one week
before the date of the public hearing, in a newspaper having general circulation in Mount
Airy and Surry County, and the notice required by North Carolina General Statutes 160A-
538(d) was mailed by first class mail, fully prepaid, to the owners of all of the property
located within the proposed Municipal Service District extensions as shown by the County
tax records as of January 1, 2026; and

WHEREAS at six o'clock, June 4, 2026, a public hearing was conducted at the
Municipal Building of the City of Mount Airy on the extensions of the Municipal Service
District at which time the proposal for extending the Municipal Service District was
reviewed and all public comments duly noted; and

WHEREAS the Board of Commissioners of the City of Mount Airy had determined
that the Municipal Service District should be extended to include the extensions as
hereinafter described:

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of the
City of Mount Airy that:


Section 1. By virtue of the authority granted by North Carolina General Statute
1604-538, the Municipal Service District of the City of Mount Airy is hereby extended by
annexing the following properties:

1. Property Owner(s): Franklin Street Development LLC

1732 Wakena Road, Cary, NC 27519-2551

Tax ID: 502015547502
Acreage: 1.28 Acres

Zoning District: B-2 (General Business)
Assessed Value: $59,850.00

Revenue Generation (.21/100): $125.69

2, Property Owner(s):

Franklin Street Development LLC
1732 Wakena Road, Cary, NC 27519-2551

Tax ID: 502015545329
Acreage: 0.247 Acres

Zoning District: B-2 (General Business)
Assessed Value: $123,700.00

Revenue Generation (.21/100): $259.77

3. Property Owner(s):

Mount Airy Restoration Foundation
PO Box 447, Mount Airy, NC 27030-0447

Tax ID: 502012759472

Acreage: 4.1 Acres

Zoning District: R-6 (General Residential)
Assessed Value: $430,640.00

Revenue Generation (.21/100): N/A

4, Property Owner(s):

Mount Airy Restoration Foundation
PO Box 447, Mount Airy, NC 27030-0447

Tax ID: 502012758586

Acreage: 0.205 Acres

Zoning District: R-6 (General Residential)
Assessed Value: $15,000.00

Revenue Generation (.21/100): N/A

5. Property Owner(s):

Bank Building Corp c/o Bank Services of VA
1300 Kings Mtn. Rd, Martinsville, VA 24112-
7268

Tax ID: 502011652855
Acreage: 1.699 Acres

Zoning District: B-2 (General Business)
Assessed Value: $933,310.00

Revenue Generation (.21/100): $1,959.95


AND WHEREAS each of the areas proposed to be annexed are contiguous to the
existing Municipal Service District and at least one-eight (12.5%) of the aggregate external
boundary of each of the areas is coincident with the existing boundary of the district.

Section 2. This Ordinance shall take effect on July 1, 2026.
Approved and adopted this the 4" day of June, 2026.

e) ABC Board Appointment Recommendation:
There is a vacancy on the ABC Board due to the resignation of John Sanders. The discussion
centered on the appointment of Betty Hamm to the ABC Board and whether the board’s
new appointment policy was properly followed.

Two applicants applied during the advertised period. Their applications were reviewed using
the new selection and scoring process, and the ABC Board recommended appointing Betty
Hamm, who has 16 years of experience managing the local ABC store and additional
experience at the state ABC level.

Commissioner Vaughn asked about the date of the ABC Board’s meeting, whether it was
properly advertised, and whether the scoring materials and required written justification
were available to which Darren Lewis replied everything was properly advertised and the
scoring process was completed along with a written statement from the ABC Board chairman
provided after this meeting’s packet was distributed.

Commissioner Vaughn encouraged staff and the ABC Board to ensure future meetings and
documentation to comply fully with the policy.

Commissioner Vaughn also questioned why the ABC Board has only three members, while
most others have five or more. Commissioner Hutchens expressed support for looking into
why they have three members and would be open to the possibility of expanding to five
members. Commissioner Thacker noted that only two people applied for the current
openings, which could potentially explain the smaller board. Commissioner Hall expressed
that he was comfortable with the board remaining at three members and understands the
reasoning behind its current size. Commissioners agreed that the issue should be explored
directly with the ABC Board to discuss the advantages/disadvantages of having three
members versus five members and whether the ABC Board supports expanding its
membership.

On motion by Commissioner Hall and passed unanimously, Betty Hamm was appointed to the
ABC Board to fill the vacant position held previously by John Sanders, which will expire
December 31, 2028.

Commissioner Hutchens noted both applicants were very qualified. He trusts the City
Manager and the ABC Board Chairman on the recommendation.

f) Discussion of Summer Board Meeting Schedule: Commissioner Vaughn

Commissioner Vaughn proposed holding only one regular meeting per month during July and
August, with special meetings called if urgent matters arose. He cited shorter recent
meetings, unpaid time for Commissioners and City staff, summer travel, and a desire to avoid
unnecessary meetings. Darren Lewis explained that the City has traditionally held two

10


meetings per mouth, although meetings have occasionally been canceled when there are no
action items, particularly around holidays. He cautioned that rezoning, budget adjustments,
and other time-sensitive matters could require Board action. City Attorney Hugh Campbell
confirmed that state law requires only one meeting per month. The two-meeting schedule
was adopted by the Board for the year, and the city has historically canceled individual
meetings when appropriate. Commissioners Hall, Hutchens, and Thacker generally favored
keeping the existing two-meeting-per-month schedule because of ongoing Planning Board
activity, development projects, affordable housing, economic development, and the
possibility that delays could affect time-sensitive matters.

There was agreement that individual meetings could be canceled when there are no pressing
agenda items, particularly the meeting around the July 4" holiday, but the Board wanted to
wait until the June 18 meeting to make that determination. Commissioner Vaughn indicated
he was willing to follow the Board’s decision, while reiterating his concern about unnecessary
meetings and his need to travel.

Consensus: No final decision was made to move to one meeting per month during the summer
months. The prevailing position was to retain two meetings per month for now, while
considering cancellation of the July 2 meeting on June 18t if there are no pressing action
items,

REMARKS BY OFFICIALS:

Commissioner Hutchens: Recognized the Mount Airy Police Department, Fire Department,
and other public safety agencies, as well as other state and federal agencies for their action
during the manhunt of the person who killed Deputy Logan Utt. There were numerous
officers who came into work showing how a community comes together in times of need.
Asked everyone to keep the family of Deputy Utt in their thoughts during this difficult time.
Deputy Utt was an easy-going person who loved his family and wanted to help people.
Commissioner Vaughn: Travis Frye, Surry County Tourism Director, is leading the effort for
the 250" anniversary of America celebration. People can contact him at 336-401-8201 for
those interested in what events will be held. Things are happening next week, including the
Military Band coming to play. Encouraged everyone to go to the Surry County Tourism
website to keep up with what is happening. Appreciates all who spoke at tonight’s meeting.
Reminded everyone that there is a City ordinance-Article 9 that addresses signs/stickers or
things of this nature that are placed on poles. Encouraged those who see something like this
to go ahead and remove it. Mentioned he walked the entire Main Street today and didn’t see
any signs of concern. Also encouraged those to call the city manager, police department, or
the code enforcement officer if they see something and it will be taken care of. Shared a
personal experience-he is downtown several days a week and meets several families from
other cities and states who all love Mount Airy. Feels the new downtown ambassador is a
great addition. Mentioned there were hundreds of people lined along the road to pay respect
to Deputy Utt.

Commissioner Thacker: Thanked the other Board members for their comments. Thoughts
and prayers go out the family of Deputy Utt.

Commissioner Hall: Echoed everything that has been said.

Mayor Pro Tempore Cochran: The Mount Airy Fiddler’s Convention is happening and she is
meeting people coming in for that.

11




















