                                                                             Holly Springs Town Council
                                                                        7:00 PM Tuesday, June 16, 2026
                                                                                        Regular Meeting
                                                             Holly Springs Town Hall Council Chambers
                                                                            128 S. Main Street, 2nd Floor

                                               MINUTES

The Holly Springs Town Council met in regular session on Tuesday, June 16, 2026. Mayor Kondratick
presided, calling the meeting to order at 7 p.m. A quorum was established as the Mayor and five
Council members were present in the Chamber as the meeting opened.

Council Members Present: Mayor Mike Kondratick, Mayor Pro Tem Annie Drees, Council members
Danielle Hewetson, Chris Deshazor, Sarah Larson, and Kara Foster.

Council Members Absent: none.

Staff Members Present in Chambers: Randy Harrington, Town Manager; Scott Chase and Daniel
Weeks, Assistant Town Managers; John Schifano, Town Attorney; Linda McKinney, Town Clerk
(recording the minutes); Kameron Womack, IT; Corey Petersohn, Director, Office of Budget and
Sustainability; Cassie Hack, Director, Communications and Marketing; LeeAnn Plumer, Director, Parks
& Recreation; Kendra Parrish, Executive Director of Utilities and Infrastructure; Tina Stroupe, Finance
Director; Chris Hills, Director of Development Services; Sean Ryan, Development Services; Jeff Wilson,
Director of IT; Irena Krstanovic, Director, Economic Development; LeRoy Smith, Fire Chief; Paul
Liquorie, Police Chief.

2. and 3. The Pledge of Allegiance was recited followed by an invocation by Pastor Jonathan Sherrod of
Kirk of Holly Springs Presbyterian Church.

4. Agenda Adjustment: The June 16, 2026, meeting agenda was adopted with changes, if any, as listed:
none

               Motion: Drees
               Second: Hewetson
               Vote: Unanimous

Public Comment: At this time, an opportunity was provided for members of the audience who had
registered to speak to address the Council, and the Clerk was asked for any written comments
received prior to the meeting.

The following public comments were received in person:
        Melisa Kelsey, 508 Arbor Creek Dr., asked Council to adopt a stricter approach to spending and
not to fund nonessential programs. She asked them to decrease spending, eliminate special projects,
remove grants from the budget, and audit operational costs to trim unnecessary expenditures.
        Brian Kelsey, 508 Arbor Creek Dr., said he thinks the critical trajectory of the town needs to be
addressed. He said over 25 years Holly Springs has transformed completely. The velocity of expansion
has outpaced the identity of the Town. He said residents’ comments are ignored by boards and staff
and things are built in favor of developers. He said a bloated tax base does not guarantee a vibrant
community. He asked Council to stop growth.
        Donna Friend, 112 Split Trunk Path, said she was here to say thank you for the grant to Pride of
Holly Springs Committee. She said that Parks & Recreation were amazing to deal with. They found a
June 16, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 1 of 6
great location for the bench. Pride of Holly Springs obtained matching funds for the grant. And the
Town assisted with the wording of the plaque, which will say “In celebration of Love. Donated by Pride
of Holly Springs Committee 2026.”
        Joan Zahornacky-Cooper, Fawn Hoof Trail, said she was a volunteer coordinator with the Red
Cross dealing with people who are displaced from their homes. She said on April 21st a local family was
displaced through a fire. She was their case worker and connected them with resources, NeighborUp,
Food Cupboard and others. This case is notable because of all the assistance they received. But from
the beginning they said they wanted to stay in Holly Springs. She would like the Town to donate more
than $2,000 to NeighborUp. She would like the donation increased to $20,000. She also asked what
the Town is doing about affordable housing. Building more houses is not working. She would like the
Town to find out what works and do that. She would like staff members dedicated to this. And she
suggested that all developments designate a small quantity of units to be affordable.

The following public comments were received in writing: two comments from Heather and Josh
Dolinger regarding Happy Hunting development; one comment requesting a three-way stop sign at
Quarry Rock, Presley Snow, and Chieftain.

Recognitions
5. Holly Springs High School Women’s Soccer State Champions
        Mayor Kondratick congratulated the Holly Springs High School Women’s Soccer team on
winning the State Championship, and presented a proclamation to the Coach and team members who
were present.

6. Juneteenth Proclamation
        Mayor Kondratick proclaimed June 19, 2026 as Juneteenth in Holly Springs and presented
proclamations to the Holly Springs ML King Jr. Committee and members of the NAACP.
Furman Beckwith, MLK Jr. Committee, and Kelli Wilhelm, President of the Raleigh Apex NAACP, said a
few words.

7. July is Parks and Recreation Month
         Mayor Kondratick proclaimed July as Parks and Recreation Month in Holly Springs and
presented the proclamation to members of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee and the
Parks and Recreation Staff.
         Val Atkins, Chair of PRAC invited the committee up and spoke a few words about the work of
the committee. LeeAnn Plumer spoke about events and programs in Parks & Recreation and thanked
the staff, volunteers, coaches, instructors, and other partners who work with the department. She
invited the community to the July 5th celebration, and other upcoming events.

REQUESTS AND COMMUNICATIONS
8. Festival Street Design Project Overview
        Sean Ryan, Development Services, said this item was to update Council on the Avent Ferry
Road Festival Street concept design project, and receive feedback from Council on elements they
would like to consider as design concepts are developed. He introduced Robert Beale from Bolton and
Menk.
        Mr. Beale showed an overview of the area where the Festival Street will be. The project will
transform the block into a flexible pedestrian-priority civic space. While the street would be open for
daily use, there would be the ability to temporarily close it for events. They said they are working toward
a community focused design to improve pedestrian safety and walkability, which incorporates traffic
calming and moves overhead utilities underground. He outlined the project schedule with concept
design and prototyping this summer, construction drawings in the fall, and construction to start in
winter of 2027.
June 16, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 2 of 6
          Mr. Beale outlined the public engagement taking place throughout the life of the project, from
stakeholder/property owner meetings, community meetings, an online survey, and a community
prototyping event in August. He said that staff had provided inspiration photos of various ways a
Festival Street could look as part of the design approach, and he showed them to Council and asked
for their reactions.
          Council member Larson said she likes artscapes and having a draw to bring people downtown.
Council member Deshazor said the hospital lights up in sport team colors, Town Hall can light up like
that. If the street could light up that way it would be great. Council member Hewetson said she likes
the lighting because it changes the space from looking like a street.
          Council member Deshazor said he liked the pavement on the 3rd St. Promenade example. It
looks more like a festival street. Council member Hewetson said some kind of lights overhead feels
like a necessity to her. Council member Foster said she likes the different pavement. She liked the
example that had lights in the trees as a way to separate sidewalks from the street. She likes the
natural benches in the Salt Lake City version, but maybe we could have them in Holly Springs colors.
MPT Drees said that providing shade is important – especially natural shade from trees. Council
member Foster said that shade will help tie it all together.
          Mr. Beale explained what residents could expect from the prototyping event where the street
would be transformed into a temporary demonstration space to test design concepts in a real-world
setting and allow participants to share feedback and perspectives in real time, as well as experiencing
what the “interventions” would feel like. This will be held on August 21st, and he invited the community
to come out for it, during Summer at the Springs.
          Mr. Beale said that next steps include various stakeholder meetings and outreach
opportunities, with a plan of presenting to Council at the September 8th Council meeting.

Consent Agenda

        The Council passed a motion to approve all items on the Consent Agenda. The motion carried
following a motion by Mayor Pro Tem Drees, a second by Council member Hewetson and a unanimous
vote. The following actions were affected:

       9. May 19, 2026 Business Meeting and May 12 and 21, 2026 Workshop Meeting Minutes –
Council approved the minutes of the May 19, 2026 Business Meeting, the May 12, 2026 Workshop
Meeting, and the May 21, 2026 Workshop Meeting.

       10. End of Year Budget Amendments - The Council approved end of year budget amendments
and adopted associated capital project ordinances, and adopted Resolution 26-22 Designating Official
Depositories, and accepted a North Carolina Great Trails State grant for $300,000.
       Copies of Budget Amendments, Ordinances 26-20, 26-21, 26-22, and Resolution 26-22 are
attached to these minutes.

        11. Voluntary Annexation A25-10 Veridea S. Village East – The Council adopted Resolution 26-
21 directing the Town Clerk to investigate the sufficiency of annexation petition A25-10, and setting the
public hearing for July 21, 2026.
       A copy of Resolution 26-21 is attached to these minutes.

       12. Engineering Design and Construction Standards Supplement #15
       The Council approved Supplement #15 to the Engineering Design and Construction Standards.

       13. Holly Springs Rd. (Central) Design Change Order #5



June 16, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 3 of 6
       The Council awarded design contract Change Order #5 to Kimley-Horn, and authorized the
Town Manager to sign and execute the change order in the amount of $24,000, and to execute any
change orders for the design contract within the approved design project budget.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
14. Consideration of a Moratorium on Data Centers
         Sean Ryan, Development Services, said the purpose of this item was for Council to consider an
up to 12-month moratorium on the acceptance, processing, and approval, of development
applications for data centers. He said Data Centers as a use was added to the Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO) in 2011 and defined during the 2020-21 UDO update process. The use has changed
substantially over the last several years and modern data centers require considerable amounts of
electricity and water, which can result in local impacts to residents and communities near the
facilities. He read the definition of a Data Center in the current UDO, and outlined how it is out of date.
         Mr. Ryan said the General Statute §160D-107 allows local governments to adopt temporary
moratoria. The duration must be reasonable, must include the proposed actions to be taken, and must
have a public hearing prior to consideration. He said the proposed actions were to study, develop, and
consider appropriate amendments to the UDO and related policies. These considerations may include
impacts on water consumption, energy demand, backup power generation, noise/vibration, land use
compatibility, and transportation infrastructure. He said that staff proposes the Land Use Advisory
Committee serve as the body to consider appropriate amendments. They will establish a regular
cadence of meetings to review staff findings and research, consider community and stakeholder
feedback, and make a recommendation to Town Council. He said that the moratorium could expire
earlier than 12 months, if the work is completed before then.
         MPT Drees asked about the timeline. Mr. Ryan said it is important to take our time and do it
correctly. It is likely that the first 8-9 months will be taken up with research and stakeholder and
community input, and use the rest of that 12-month period to solidify the recommendation from the
Committee and then go through the adoption process, which is about a 2 ½ to 3-month process.
         Council member Hewetson asked if staff saw this as a moving target because this is changing
so quickly. Mr. Ryan said that with everything in the UDO we watch for changes and adjust. This is such
a big new issue that we think it is important to have a good baseline to start with.

Mayor Kondratick opened the public hearing and the following input was received:
        Jai Butts, 3007 Forest Village Dr., said the name of Holly Springs derives from water sources,
and data centers could endanger that water. Data Centers use a lot of water and if data centers are
allowed, they can impact our water. They put a strain on the grid and other infrastructure. People spoke
at public comment about infrastructure problems, and data centers will make that worse. He said he
was speaking in support of this moratorium.
        Melisa Kelsey, 508 Arbor Creek, said she was here to support the moratorium. She has serious
concerns about the impacts these facilities may have on quality of life, water supply, utility costs, and
the local job market. She spoke of the amounts of water and energy they use. Without alternative water
sources, these centers draw from current municipal supplies. Communities have seen utility costs rise
due to this demand. She said data centers are loud and make poor neighbors. She said noise impacts
can extend hundreds of feet, and cause adverse effects such as sleep disruption and other health
concerns, and can undermine property values. She said the promised employment benefits often do
not materialize. She said the community bears the burden without receiving the benefit. She asked
Council to vote yes on the moratorium.

Mayor Kondratick closed the public hearing.

       Council member Deshazor said he would like to see a broader definition of a data center. He
has read about data centers renting out space in residential homes. This area is changing so quickly we
June 16, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 4 of 6
need to consider all aspects. Council member Larson thanked staff for being proactive in bringing this
up now.
        MPT Drees said she is not a fan of moratoriums, but in this case she agrees because we are
taking a moment to evaluate the impact on the residents and resources. She asked staff to prioritize
this. She said priority 1 is to get it right, but priority 2 is to do it quickly.
        Council member Foster said it is responsible to take the time to look into this. As we are
expanding our water and sewer operations, we want to keep our standards where they are.
        Council member Hewetson said the technology is changing all the time. She thinks this is the
responsible thing to do, to understand what it is and how it will affect Holly Springs. She also agrees
that we should make sure we are thorough in understanding what the UDO will look like moving
forward.

Action: Motion to adopt Ordinance 26-19 to approve an up to 12-month moratorium on the
acceptance, processing, and approval of development applications for data center, cryptocurrency
mining, data processing, and other uses associated with data centers as specific uses within the Town
of Holly Springs corporate limits and its extraterritorial jurisdiction.

       Motion: Hewetson
       Second: Deshazor
       Vote: unanimous

NEW BUSINESS

15. Bridge Naming Endorsement in Honor of Deputy Mark R. Tucker
        Linda McKinney, Town Clerk, said this item was to consider a resolution endorsing naming a
bridge on Holly Springs Road in honor of Deputy Mark R. Tucker. She said the town was approached by
the Wake County Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 41 who were seeking to have NCDOT name the bridge
on Holly Springs Road over NC 540 named to honor Deputy Tucker, who was killed in action near that
spot in 2004. She showed the location of the bridge. She outlined the NCDOT requirements for such a
naming and said the applicant has completed the application, collected the required letters of
recommendation, verified the families support, and raised the funds to pay the NCDOT administrative
fee. The steps required of the Town, if they are in support of this naming, are to pass the resolution
unanimously, and to supply a copy of the minutes showing the adoption of that resolution.

        Action: Motion to adopt Resolution 26-20 endorsing the naming of the Holly Springs Road
bridge over NC 540 in honor of Deputy Mark R. Tucker.

       Motion: Deshazor
       Second: Larson
       Vote: unanimous
A copy of Resolution 26-20 is attached to these minutes.

OTHER BUSINESS
        Council member Foster said she was excited about the Festival Street, and it tied together
nicely with honoring Parks & Recreation.
        Council member Hewetson said we are heading into summer and lots of events. Parks &
Recreation mentioned July 5th and also Summer at the Springs on Aug. 21st. But she invited people to
check out other events, and have a good summer.
        Mayor Kondratick offered his congratulations to the MLK Jr. Committee for a wonderful
Juneteenth event. He said that Thursday the 25th is our Avent Ferry Rd. Widening Phase 2 Community
meeting at Holly Grove Middle and he invited people to come to that.
June 16, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 5 of 6
        MPT Drees said she was honored to be part of endorsing the bridge naming. She said the Holly
Springs Police Department had a great program last night about children’s online safety. They do
events like this throughout the year, and she invited people to participate.
        Council member Deshazor thanked everyone who came out to the Juneteenth event. It was a
great event. He said it’s not just an event; it’s a celebration. He said to the commenter who asked
Councill to address affordable housing and prices, we have been working on this. It will not happen
overnight. It is not quick. But they as a Council have been working on it since the retreat last February.
He said the Middle Creek Greenway is getting flashing beacons at the crosswalk. And now pedestrian
flags have been installed.
        Council member Larson said Chief Liquorie was at the Salamanders game for an e-bike event,
and a lot of kids and parents were there. Please continue to educate the youth and parents. She
thanked staff for the e-bike FAQ on the website. June 18th is national go fishing day and there is an event
at Bass Lake that day. June 19th Summer at the Springs features the Joe Hero Band and there is a Pride
event at Womble. She wished Happy Father’s Day to all the dads.

MANAGER’S REPORT
       Randy Harrington, Town Manager, said he had five items. Summer at the Springs will have Joe
Hero at the next one. He informed the public that for the July 4th weekend – town offices will be closed
on Friday, July 3rd. He said that service changes will be posted on social media soon. On July 5th we will
celebrate the nation’s 250th anniversary and the Town’s 150th. There will be enhanced fireworks and
special glasses for viewing them. There will be some historical banners to walk through and experience
our history. There will be entertainers roving throughout the evening and attendees will have the
opportunity to sign up for text messages during the event. We expect a large crowd. Parking can be a
challenge, so we appreciate everyone’s patience. But it’s a great experience. You can also walk or bike
to the park.
       He said the Avent Ferry Festival Street community meeting will be on Wed. July 15th in Town Hall
from 6-8. And the Holly Springs Hopper will begin Saturday service from 9 am – 10 pm starting on July
11th.

CLOSED SESSION: Council entered into closed session pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(4) to
discuss an economic incentive, with a motion by Council member Hewetson, a second by MPT Drees,
and a unanimous vote.

Motion to leave closed session was made by Council member Deshazor with a second by Council
member Hewetson and a unanimous vote.

Adjournment: Council member Deshazor made a motion to adjourn at 8:40 pm. It was seconded by
Council member Hewetson and passed with a unanimous vote.

Respectfully submitted on Tuesday, July 21, 2026.

___________________________________
Linda C. McKinney, Town Clerk
Addenda pages as referenced in these minutes follow and are a part of the official record.




June 16, 2026 | Town Council Meeting
Page 6 of 6
