                      Agenda Item Report
                      Agenda Item No. AIR-2866
                      Submitted by: Barbie Bruce
                      Submitting Department: Town Clerk
                      Meeting Date: August 11, 2026

Subject:
Public Hearing for Ordinance (ORD2026014) Imposing a Proposed Moratorium for Data
Centers
Information: The Board of Commissioners will conduct a public hearing pursuant to North
Carolina General Statute § 160D-107, allowing local governments to place a temporary
moratorium on any development approval required by law. The Board of Commissioners desires
to study these impacts and to consider appropriate zoning definitions, standards, and regulations
applicable to data center development before such uses are permitted to locate within the Town.
Staff is requesting the Board of Commissioners to consider adoption of Ordinance
(ORD2026014) Imposing a Proposed Moratorium for Data Centers and directed the Town Clerk
to schedule a public hearing for August 11, 2026.
Recommended Action:
     MOTION to Open and Close the public hearing
Presenter: Kevin Robinson, Development Services Director

ATTACHMENTS
DRAFT ORDINANCE ORD2026014 - Imposing Moratorium for Data Centers - 2026.08.11(v4)
ORDINANCE: ORD2026014




AN ORDINANCE IMPOSING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON THE
 ACCEPTANCE, PROCESSING, AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS
 FOR NEW DATA CENTER DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE TOWN OF
         WAXHAW, NORTH CAROLINA PURSUANT TO
       NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTE § 160D-107

WHEREAS, pursuant to North Carolina General Statute § 160D-107, local governments may
adopt a temporary moratorium on any development approval required by law;

WHEREAS, the Town of                                                             currently does not
specifically                     ata center,
and other associated uses as specific uses;

WHEREAS, the Town of Waxhaw                                           account for the impact of the
foregoing uses on existing development and existing and future extensions of Town infrastructure,
including electric utility capacity, water consumption, noise, heat generation, lighting, traffic, and
the character of surrounding neighborhoods;

WHEREAS, the Town of Waxhaw Board of Commissioners                        desires to study these
impacts and to consider appropriate zoning definitions, standards, and regulations applicable to
data center development before such uses are considered for approval within the Town;

WHEREAS, the Board held a properly noticed legislative public hearing on this moratorium on
August 11, 2026, in accordance with North Carolina General Statute § 160D-601; and

WHEREAS, the Board believes such a moratorium will protect the public interest and welfare of
the residents of the Town of Waxhaw until it can complete its studies and prepare and adopt such
ordinance regulations.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of the Town of
Waxhaw, North Carolina:

Section 1. Imposition and Term of Moratorium.
A temporary moratorium is hereby imposed on the acceptance, processing, and approval of
applications for new data center development, including data centers, cryptocurrency mining, data
storage and processing, related telecommunications equipment and infrastructure, and uses
ORDINANCE: ORD2026014


associated with data processing facilities not yet defined in the LDC, within the Town of Waxhaw
commencing on August 11, 2026, and expiring no later than August 10, 2027, or upon the
adoption of new regulations and/or policies addressing data center development, whichever occurs
first. The Board may terminate this moratorium earlier than its stated expiration upon passage of
a resolution or ordinance by a majority vote of the Board.

Section 2. Definitions.
                                                                        dedicated space within a
building, structure, or group of buildings, containing one or more large-scale computer systems,
servers, or networked computing equipment used for data storage, data processing, cloud
computing, web hosting, application hosting, streaming, or other similar off-site data services,
together with associated support infrastructure including but not limited to backup power
generation equipment, redundant electrical and data communications connections, cooling

classified under NAICS Code 518210 (Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services) or
functionally equivalent uses and includes cryptocurrency mining, artificial intelligence (A.I.)
computing, and similar computationally intensive operations.

This moratorium shall not apply to facilities or equipment that is clearly incidental and subordinate
to a permitted principal use and whose primary purpose is to support the internal data processing
operations of an institution, government entity, healthcare provider, telecommunications provider,
or other permitted principal use on the same site, so long as data processing services are not offered
as a primary service to off-site users.

Section 3. Scope of Moratorium.
   1. This moratorium prohibits the acceptance, processing, and approval of any zoning, site
       plan, building, or other development permit application within the Town's planning
       jurisdiction for the purpose of establishing a new data center.

   2. This moratorium prohibits the rezoning of any property for the purpose of establishing a
      data center use.

   3. This moratorium does not apply to applications determined to be complete and vested prior
      to the commencement date stated in Section 1, or to property or projects otherwise exempt
      under N.C.G.S. § 160D-107(c) or applicable North Carolina law.

Section 4. Required Statements.
In compliance with N.C.G.S. § 160D-107(d), the Board makes the following statements:

   1. Problems or conditions necessitating the moratorium. The Town has observed a
      substantial and increasing volume of data center development activity across North
      Carolina and the surrounding region. The Town's LDC

       heat, lighting, and infrastructure impacts associated with such facilities. Absent clear
       standards, Town staff must rely on discretionary interpretation to evaluate applications,
       which creates uncertainty and risks for applicants, staff, and the community. The Town has
ORDINANCE: ORD2026014


       considered proceeding without a moratorium but has determined that immediate piecemeal
       regulation, without adequate study, would not sufficiently address these concerns. The
       Town also determined that allowing such intensive land uses to be permitted without regard
       to location, height, size, density, neighboring uses, and the impacts on utilities and
       infrastructure                                                                     ordinances,
       yielding results that are not in the best interests of the Town and its residents.

   2. Development approvals subject to the moratorium. This moratorium applies to the
      acceptance, processing, and approval of zoning, site plan, building, and related
      development applications for new data center development, and to the rezoning of property
      for such use, as described in Sections 2 and 3 hereinabove. The moratorium will provide
      the Town the opportunity to research the impacts of data center development; evaluate the
      approaches taken by other North Carolina jurisdictions; and draft and adopt appropriate
      definitions, use standards, and siting criteria for data centers within the Town's LDC.

   3. Duration of the moratorium. The moratorium shall commence on August 11, 2026 and
      terminate no later than August 10, 2027, unless terminated earlier as provided in Section
      1. This duration is reasonably necessary to allow town the time to research impacts of data
      center uses and prepare an ordinance(s) addressing them.

   4. Actions proposed during the moratorium. During the term of the moratorium, the Town
      proposes to allow Town staff to undertake an initial phase to study data center
      developments and the impacts resulting from such uses, monitor and review any related
      legislation from the North Carolina General Assembly that is currently proposed and under
      review, as well as engage the public and industry stakeholders as needed. Following this
      initial period of study and engagement, Town staff will draft proposed LDC amendments,
      continue any additional study and engagement as needed, and complete the legislative
      process required for adoption, including review by the Planning Board and public hearing
      before the Board of Commissioners.

Section 5. Early Termination. This moratorium shall terminate sooner than the date stated in
Section 1 upon the effective date of an ordinance adopted by the Board of Commissioners
establishing zoning definitions and regulations applicable to data center development.

Section 6. Renewal or Extension. Nothing in this ordinance shall preclude the Board from
renewing or extending this moratorium in accordance with, and to the extent permitted by,
N.C.G.S. § 160D-107(e).

Section 7. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase, or part of this ordinance is
declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The Town of Waxhaw Board of
Commissioners hereby declares that it would have adopted this ordinance, and each section,
subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared invalid.
ORDINANCE: ORD2026014


Section 8. Conflicting Ordinances. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this
ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.

Section 9. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon adoption.

ADOPTED AND MADE EFFECTIVE UPON APPROVAL on this the 11th day of August
2026.


                                                  _________________________________
                                                  Robert J. Murray, III
                                                  Mayor, Town of Waxhaw

ATTEST:


_______________________________
Barbara Bruce, Town Clerk



APPROVED AS TO FORM:



_________________________________
Matthew C. Dellinger, Town Attorney
