                                                                                             AGENDA
                                                                          MAYODAN TOWN COUNCIL
                                                                                       May 11, 2026
                                                                                            6:00 p.m.
                                                                  James A. Collins Municipal Building
CALL TO ORDER

PRAYER:
Given by Bruce Martin with Reality Church Stoneville.

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Pledge of Allegiance led by Mayodan Troop 562

PUBLIC COMMENTS

RECOGNITION:
  A. Swearing-In Ceremony and Introduction to Bailey Massey

CONSENT AGENDA :

PUBLIC HEARING:
  A. Public Hearing and Decision - Ratification of Demolition Ordinance Adoption (500 N. Third
     Avenue) and Resolution Confirming Demolition Charges and Lien Against the Property
  B. Public Hearing and Decision - Moratoria on Data Centers and Solar Energy
  C. Public Hearing and Decision - Text Amendment for Curb, Gutter, and Sidewalk Alternatives
  D. Public Hearing and Decision - Special Use Application for Curb, Gutter, and Sidewalk Alternatives
     for N 7th Avenue

OLD BUSINESS:


NEW BUSINESS:
  A. Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance – First Reading (Introduction)
  B. Hazard Mitigation Plan
  C. Social Media Policy
  D. Proclamation Public Works Week May 17-23

CLOSED SESSION:
N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(1)] to prevent the disclosure of privileged information, N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(6)]
for personnel reasons, and N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(3)] to consult with the attorney

MANAGER COMMENTS/ANNOUNCEMENTS

DEPARTMENT HEAD COMMENTS/ANNOUNCEMENTS

COUNCIL COMMENTS/ANNOUNCEMENTS

ADJOURN


                   AGENDA ITEM COVER



Item for Agenda:         New Employee Introduction,
                         Promotional Announcement
Placement on Agenda:
Presenter:               Chief Knight
 Description of Agenda   Introducing New Police Officer
        Item or          -Officer Bailey Massey
    Other Pertinent      (Swearing-In Ceremony)
    Information for
        Council:         Promotional Announcement

                         Officer Patrick Wilson Promotion to Rank
                         of Patrol Sergeant


WORKING AS ONE.
ADVANCING ALL.

-b)] NCLM

| NC LEAGUE OF MUNICIPALITIES

Town of Mayodan
Municipal Accounting Services
(MAS) Program Celebration

May 11, 2026


           Municipal Accounting Services
                  (MAS) Program
• American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funding awarded to the State of North
  Carolina and then sub-awarded to NCLM.
• Funding covers MAS participant costs in the program for the first 3 years
  including software licensing, conversion, and maintenance costs as well as
  the cost of the accounting assistance through the end of 2026.
• Goal is to:
    • promote financial accountability and reliability by providing 1)
      governmental accounting software 2) guidance on best financial
      practices and 3) accounting assistance to ensure year-end audit
      readiness.
    • Provide software & accounting assistance for 40-60 Towns (<2500 pop.)
• Mayodan is the 28th town to convert to Black Mountain Software


                         Major Mayodan
                        Accomplishments
• Went “live” successfully on new financial software – June 1st, 2025.

• General Ledger was converted to the MAS Program Standard Uniform Chart of
  Accounts.

• Central Depository has been established, and bank accounts have been reduced from
  16 accounts to 4 accounts.

• Investments accounts have been reduced from 2 to 1.

• Town was sharing cash drawers among 3 members. A 2nd cash drawer was purchased,
  and staff was trained on managing cash drawers on a 1 to 1 basis.

• The Town implemented Positive Pay.


                       Major Mayodan
                      Accomplishments
• Bank Reconciliation module in BMS has improved bank reconciliation each
  month. Bank reconciliations were previously completed manually.

• The Interest Allocation feature in BMS has made distributing interest among the
  funds easier.

• The Payroll module in BMS has made payroll a smoother process than before.

• Went “live with Citizens portal, allowing citizens access to online payment
  options and past billing history.


More to Come…

• Continued mentoring of Staff / Board on Accounting related matters

• Implementation of Best Practices and Policies

• Available to Answer General Accounting Questions and MAS Help Desk

• Networking of municipalities that use the software to create a resource for
 units to share experiences and knowledge

• Financial management training opportunities for Board and Staff


More to Come…

• Manuals providing information on financial tasks that must be done on a
daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, and annual basis along with information on
how to complete those tasks.

• Consistent use of a Standard Chart of Accounts among participants could
lead to more efficient and cost-effective preparation of financial statements and
audits to assist with the amount of time it takes to complete an audit.


Equation for Financial Success

 Enhanced Software Tool Effectively Used by Staff
                      +
   MAS Accounting Assistance Program Efforts
                      +
   Regular Management and Board Oversight
                      =
         Reliable Financial Records
                     and
         Quality Services to Citizens


                          Thank You!

• To the State Legislature for their funding and support to allow the MAS
  Program to become a reality!
• To the Town of Mayodan Board for their support throughout the
  conversion!
• To the Local Government Commission for partnering with the Town and
  the League to take this step towards better financial accountability and
  reliability for the Town!


                        Thank You!

And last – but not least – to:

             Brianna Cardwell, Finance Officer
                 Sarah Hopper, Town Clerk
                Sherri Munson, Billing Clerk

for their hard work and determination to make the Town of
Mayodan a successful, thriving, and supportive community for its
families and citizens!


                                      AGENDA ITEM COVER

Item for Agenda:   Public Hearing and Decision – Ratification of Demolition Ordinance Adoption
                   (500 N. Third Avenue) and Resolution Confirming Demolition Charges and Lien
                   Against the Property

Meeting Date:      May 11, 2026

Placement on       Public Hearings
Agenda:

Presenter:         Melody Shuler, Town Manager

Description of     Background
Agenda Item or     The Town of Mayodan completed minimum housing enforcement for the
Other Pertinent    residential structure located at 500 N. 3rd Ave (PIN 120412), owned by the
Information for    Heirs, Known and Unknown, of Mary Lee Bryant Biggs and Roy C. Biggs.
Council:           Following an inspection on July 26, 2024, a complaint and notice of hearing
                   were served on March 28, 2025. A duly noticed hearing was held on June 26,
                   2025, before the Code Enforcement Officer.
                   On June 26, 2025, the Code Enforcement Officer issued an Order finding the
                   structure deteriorated/dilapidated and directing the owner to repair or
                   demolish the structure within ninety (90) days. No corrective action was taken.
                   At the November 10, 2025 Town Council meeting, the Council adopted a
                   Demolition Ordinance authorizing and directing the Ordinance Enforcement
                   Officer to demolish the structure and place a placard on the property. The
                   Ordinance was subsequently recorded in the Rockingham County Register of
                   Deeds on November 19, 2025 (Book 1701, Page 1757). The demolition has
                   since been completed.
                   Procedural Note
                   State law requires that before a demolition lien can be enforced, the governing
                   board must: (1) ratify by ordinance its prior adoption of the demolition
                   ordinance, and (2) confirm the associated costs by resolution in order to
                   establish a valid lien against the property for cost recovery. A public hearing is
                   required prior to these actions to provide the property owner and parties of
                   interest an opportunity to be heard. The public hearing was advertised
                   according to law.
                   Next Steps
                     • Following the public hearing, Council will consider ratification of the
                       Demolition Ordinance.
                     • Council will consider adoption of a Resolution confirming the demolition
                       charges and directing that a lien be filed against the property.
                     • The confirmed lien will be filed in the appropriate offices of the Town of
                       Mayodan and Rockingham County, including the Rockingham County
                       Clerk of Superior Court’s Office.


Requested Action
Following the public hearing, Council is requested to:
  1. Ratify the adoption of the Demolition Ordinance for the structure located
     at 500 N. 3rd Ave, Mayodan, NC 27027 (Parcel ID: 120412); and
  2. Adopt a Resolution confirming the demolition charges and directing that a
     lien be filed against the property in the amount of the actual cost of
     demolition.


a)

Book 1701 PAGE 1757 (2)

[IMM

Filed
Rockingham County, NC
Benjamin J. Curtis, Register of Deeds

41/19/2025 01:46:54 PM
Fee Amt: $26.00 NC Excise Tax: $0.00

LAURIN NANCE

EK

/ Return to: W. Eugene Russell 405 W. Decatur Street Madison, North Carolina 27025

v
AN ORDINANCE DIRECTING THE ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER TO REMOVE OR
DEMOLISH THE STRUCTURE HEREIN DESCRIBED AS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION AND
DANGEROUS TO THE PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE AND DIRECTING THAT A
NOTICE BE PLACED THEREON THAT THE SAME MAY NOT BE OCCUPIED.

WHEREAS, on July 26th, 2024, the Town of Mayodan’s contracted Code Enforcement Officer
conducted a thorough inspection of the dwelling located on the property identified in the Rockingham County
Tax Records as PIN: 120412 _and having a street address of 500 N. 3“ Ave Mayodan, North Carolina said
property is owned by Heirs, Known and Unknown of Mary Lee Bryant Biggs and Roy C. Biggs., (the “Owner”),
as evidenced by that deed recorded in the Rockingham County Registry at Deed Book 974 Page 1681 and

WHEREAS, on March 28'", 2025 the Town of Mayodan’s contracted Code Enforcement Officer
served upon the Owner and parties of interest in such dwelling a complaint stating the charges in that respect
and containing a notice of a hearing to be held before the Officer;

WHEREAS, a duly noticed hearing was held on June 26th, 2025 before the Code Enforcement Officer
in Mayodan located at: 210 W Main St. Mayodan, NC 27027. and

WHEREAS, the Code Enforcement Officer issued an Order on June 26th, 2025. In the Order, the Officer
determined that the house was deteriorated/dilapidated and ordered the following steps be taken:

Make repairs to the house within ninety (90) days; and/or remove or demolish the structure

within ninety (90) days and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council of the Town of Mayodan that:

Section 1, The Ordinance Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized and directed to place a placard containing
the legend:

"This building is unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation
is prohibited and unlawful."

on the structure located at 500 N. 3rd Ave Mayodan NC 27027 Parcel ID: 120412 _in the Town of Mayodan,
North Carolina.

Section 2. The Ordinance Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized and directed to proceed to remove or
demolish the above-described structure in accordance with his order to the owner and parties in interest thereof
dated June 26th, 2025, and in accordance with the Town’s Minimum Housing Ordinance.




Section 3. The cost of removal or demolition shall constitute a lien against the real property 500 N. 3rd Ave
Mayodan Mayodan NC 27027 Parcel ID: 120412 . The lien shall be filed in all appropriate offices of the Town of
Mayodan and Rockingham County, including the Rockingham County Clerk of Superior Court’s Office, and
shall have the same priority and be collected in the same manner as the lien for special assessments in Article 10
of G.S. Chapter 160A.

Section 4. Upon completion of the required removal or demolition, the Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall
determine whether any of the materials have re-sale value and if so, to make a reasonable effort to sell the same.
If any materials are sold, the Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall credit the process against the cost of removal
or demolition, and this shall be noted as such in the recorded lien. If a surplus remains after sale of the materials
and satisfaction of the cost of removal or demolition, the Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall deposit the
surplus in the Superior Court where it shall be secured and disbursed in the manner provided by Article 12 of
Chapter 160D of the General Statutes.

Section 5. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed the placard referenced herein
and affixed to the structure. It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to occupy or to permit the occupancy
of any structure building therein declared to be unfit for human habitation.

Section 6. This ordinance shall become effective upon its adoption.

Ayes: H Noes: |

This the AO day of November 2695

Melody Shuler , Town Manager Dyfght oe Mayor

Note: This ordinance must be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds in the county where
the property is located and must be indexed in the name Heirs, Known and Unknown of Ma
Lee Bryant Biggs and Roy C. Biggs., the property owner.



                       Resolution Confirming Demolition Charges and
                             Establishing Lien Against Property
                 500 N. 3rd Avenue, Mayodan, NC 27027 (Parcel ID: 120412)

WHEREAS, the Town of Mayodan completed minimum housing code enforcement proceedings
for the residential structure located at 500 N. 3rd Avenue, Mayodan, North Carolina 27027,
identified as Parcel ID 120412, and owned by Heirs, Known and Unknown, of Mary Lee Bryant
Biggs and Roy C. Biggs (the “Owner”); and

WHEREAS, following inspection, notice, and a duly noticed hearing on June 26, 2025, the Code
Enforcement Officer issued an Order finding the structure to be deteriorated and dilapidated and
directing the Owner to repair or demolish the structure within ninety (90) days; and

WHEREAS, no corrective action was taken by the Owner within the time prescribed; and

WHEREAS, on November 10, 2025, the Town Council of Mayodan adopted a Demolition
Ordinance authorizing and directing the Ordinance Enforcement Officer to remove or demolish
the structure, which Ordinance was recorded in the Rockingham County Register of Deeds on
November 19, 2025 at Book 1701, Page 1757; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Mayodan subsequently caused the demolition of the structure to be
completed, at an actual total cost of $10,535.00 (the “Demolition Cost”); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-443(6) and Article 10 of G.S. Chapter 160A, the Town is
authorized to place a lien on the real property for the cost of demolition, which lien shall have the
same priority and be collected in the same manner as liens for special assessments; and

WHEREAS, a public hearing was duly held on May 11, 2026, providing the Owner and parties
of interest an opportunity to be heard regarding the demolition charges and the proposed lien; and

WHEREAS, the Town Council has ratified the adoption of the Demolition Ordinance and now
desires to confirm the demolition charges and direct that a lien be filed against the property.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Town Council of the Town of Mayodan,
North Carolina, as follows:

Section 1. The Town Council hereby confirms that the total cost of demolition of the structure
located at 500 N. 3rd Avenue, Mayodan, NC 27027 (Parcel ID: 120412) is $10,535.00.


Section 2. The confirmed Demolition Cost of $10,535.00 shall constitute a lien against the real
property located at 500 N. 3rd Avenue, Mayodan, NC 27027 (Parcel ID: 120412), in the name of
Heirs, Known and Unknown, of Mary Lee Bryant Biggs and Roy C. Biggs.

Section 3. The Town Manager and Town Attorney are hereby directed to file the confirmed lien
in all appropriate offices of the Town of Mayodan and Rockingham County, including the
Rockingham County Clerk of Superior Court’s Office, in accordance with G.S. Chapter 160A,
Article 10.

Section 4. This Resolution shall become effective upon its adoption.


Adopted this 11th day of May 2026.




_______________________________
E. Dwight Lake, Mayor


ATTEST:


_______________________________
Sarah Hopper, Town Clerk


                             TOWN OF MAYODAN, NORTH CAROLINA
                                210 W Main St · Mayodan, NC 27027 · (336) 427-0241




                                   DEMOLITION COST SUMMARY
                          500 N. 3rd Avenue, Mayodan, NC 27027 · Parcel ID: 120412


Owner:               Heirs, Known and Unknown, of Mary Lee Bryant
                     Biggs and Roy C. Biggs
Contractor:          Spencer's Garage and Environmental Services,
                     Stoneville, NC 27048
Ordinance            November 10, 2025 · Recorded Book 1701, Page
Adopted:             1757



  #    Date            Vendor                       Description                                  Amount

                                                    Asbestos survey/test (Invoice
  1    02/26/2026      Spencer's Garage                                                          $535.00
                                                    #1064)
                                                    Asbestos remediation — removal
  2    02/22/2026      Spencer's Garage                                                        $3,000.00
                                                    & disposal (W.O. 2026-01)
                                                    Demolition of structure and all
  3    03/02/2026      Spencer's Garage             detached improvements (W.O.                $7,000.00
                                                    2026-02)

                                                             TOTAL DEMOLITION COST            $10,535.00



Cost Certification
I hereby certify that the above costs represent the actual expenses incurred by the Town of Mayodan for the
demolition of the structure located at 500 N. 3rd Avenue, Mayodan, NC 27027 (Parcel ID: 120412), in accordance
with the Demolition Ordinance adopted November 10, 2025.




Melody Shuler, Town Manager
Town of Mayodan, North Carolina
Date: 5/1/2026


This cost summary is submitted in support of the Resolution Confirming Demolition Charges and Establishing Lien Against
                                            Property at 500 N. 3rd Avenue.


    INVOICE
    Spencer's Garage                   spencersgarage01@gmail.com
    3645 US Highway 220 Business       +1 (336) 573-3557
    Stoneville, NC 27048




    Bill to
    Town of Mayodan




    Invoice details
    Invoice no.: 1064
    Terms: Net 30
    Invoice date: 02/26/2026
    Due date: 03/28/2026




#       Date          Product or service                  Description                  Qty     Rate     Amount


1.      02/26/2026    Asbestos Removal                   Asbestos Test                   1   $500.00     $500.00


                                                                           Subtotal                     $500.00
        Ways to pay                                                        Sales tax                     $35.00


                                                                         Total                         $535.00

                 View and pay


WOURK VRUVETY TM
MAYODAN, NORTH CAROLINA

CONTRACTOR: Spencer's Garage and Enviromental Services
Address: 36455 US Hwy 220
Stoneville NC 27048

Property Address: 500 N. 3rd Ave. Parcel: 6575 120412
JOB DESCRIPTION:

Asbestos Remediation
AMOUNT
Date Work Details QTy UNIT AMOUNT
2/20/2026 Removal and disposal of {3,000.00} 1 3,000.00

asbestos cbntainind materials
identified in the
asbestos survey
and in accordance with
Federal and State
standards.

Provide Clearance Letter

Pais aah
Siege 1A as
eS et a SMe

“TOTAL DUE $3,000.00)

Date Completed: 2- 2.2-2024
Date of Invoice: 2-29-20 24

Contractor Notes:

Sov Blhiy Ao 2-33-2024

CONTRACTOR SIGNATURE DATE

Ae B/OBY LIE

AZ CODE ENFORCEMENT SIGNATURE OATE 7



DATE OF ORDER_#4### WORK ORDER No. 2026-01

WORK ORDER/INVOICE
MAYODAN, NORTH CAROLINA

CONTRACTOR: Spencer's Garage and Enviromental Services
Address: 36455 US Hwy 220
Stoneville NC 27048

Property Address: 500 N. 3rd Ave. Parcel: 6575 120412
JOB DESCRIPTION:

Asbestos Remediation

AMOUNT
EE TRUONG

Date Work Details end UNIT AMOUNT
2/20/2026 | Removal and disposal of [3,000.00/ 1 3,000.00
lasbestos cntainind materials

identified in the
asbestos survey

and in accordance with

Federal and State
standards.

pacha

DUE $3,000/00%

Date Completed: 2.- 22-2024,
Date of Invoice: 2- 22.-2o 2q

Contractor Notes:

a
fe Ahhig Arn 1-33-9024
CONTRACTOR SIGNATURE DATE

ZL 2/at Le
La’ CODE ENFORCEMENT SIGNATURE BATE 7



DATE OF ORDER: 03/02/26 WORK ORI
WORK ORDER/INVOICE
THE TOWN OF MAYODAN, NORTH CAROLINA

CONTRACTOR: _ Spencer's Garage and Envirometal Services

Address: 364 US Hwy 220
Stoneville, NC 27048
Property Address: 500 N. 3rd Ave Parcel: 6575 120412

JOB DESCRIPTION:

Date Work Details COST
03/02/26

Demolition of the entire house and all detached structures,
footings, foundation, floors, porches, including basement and
remove all demolition debris. Grade the distrubed area so there
is no pooling of water, seed and straw the distrubed area. Obtain
all proper permits and adhere to the permit instructions for the
landfill requirements.

| TOTAL]

Date Completed: on ne 5 i. WD
Date of Invoice: 2

Contractor Notes:

x tit 2p2 aoa

CONTRAS DATE

CODE ENFORCEMENT SIGNATURE DATE


DER NO: 2026-02

QTY AMOUNT
1 $7,000.00

DUE: $ 7,000.00



                    AGENDA ITEM COVER

Item for Agenda:         Ordinances for Moratoria on Data
                         Centers and Solar Energy Systems
Placement on Agenda:     New Business
Presenter:               Lucy Lewis
 Description of Agenda   Background
        Item or          Emerging land uses such as data centers and
                         large-scale solar energy systems have become
    Other Pertinent
                         increasingly common in North Carolina and
    Information for      surrounding regions. In response, Town Council
        Council:         requested that staff prepare temporary moratoria
                         to allow time to evaluate potential impacts and
                         develop appropriate regulatory standards.

                         The Town’s current Zoning Ordinance does not
                         include specific definitions or standards
                         addressing these uses or their potential impacts
                         on utilities, adjacent properties, and overall land
                         use compatibility.

                         Discussion
                         Data centers and similar high-impact facilities can
                         place significant demands on electrical
                         infrastructure and generate noise from equipment
                         and backup systems. Large-scale solar energy
                         systems—particularly ground-mounted or
                         commercial installations—may also raise
                         concerns related to land use compatibility, site
                         design, and long-term maintenance.

                         Temporary moratoria are authorized under North
                         Carolina General Statute § 160D-107 and provide
                         a defined period for local governments to study
                         these uses and develop appropriate regulations.

                         The proposed moratoria would suspend the
                         acceptance and processing of development
                         approvals for these uses for sixty (60) days.
                         During this time, staff would prepare ordinance
                         amendments establishing definitions, identifying
                         appropriate zoning districts, and developing
                         development standards.


Requested Action
Adopt the ordinances establishing temporary
moratoria on development approvals for data
centers and other high-impact facilities and solar
energy systems.


TOWN OF MAYODAN, NORTH CAROLINA
ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON DEVELOPMENT
APPROVALS FOR DATA CENTERS AND OTHER HIGH-IMPACT FACILITIES


WHEREAS, the Town of Mayodan is authorized under N.C. General Statute § 160D-107 to
adopt temporary moratoria on development approvals in order to protect the public health, safety,
and welfare; and

WHEREAS, the Town has recently experienced increased interest and inquiries related to the
development of data centers, cryptocurrency mining operations, and other high-impact data
processing or energy-intensive facilities; and

WHEREAS, such uses may create substantial and unique impacts, including but not limited to
significant electrical demand and strain on local and regional utility infrastructure, noise impacts
from mechanical equipment and backup generators, high water consumption for cooling systems,
potential land use compatibility concerns with nearby residential or mixed-use areas, and
environmental and operational impacts not currently addressed in the Town’s development
regulations; and

WHEREAS, the Town’s current Zoning Ordinance does not contain specific definitions, use
classifications, or performance standards to adequately regulate these types of facilities; and

WHEREAS, the Town Council finds that immediate acceptance and approval of such
development applications without appropriate standards could negatively impact public
infrastructure, surrounding properties, and the overall character of the community; and

WHEREAS, the Town requires a limited period of time to study these uses and to develop
appropriate regulations, including use definitions, zoning district placement, and performance
standards; and

WHEREAS, a temporary moratorium is necessary to allow the Town sufficient time to
undertake this work in an orderly and deliberate manner within a compressed timeframe.


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Mayodan:

Section 1. Moratorium Established
A temporary moratorium is hereby established on the acceptance, processing, and approval of
any development approval required by law for the establishment, construction, expansion, or
modification of the following uses:



                                            Page 1 of 4


   •   Data Centers
   •   Cryptocurrency Mining Facilities
   •   Artificial Intelligence Processing Facilities
   •   High-Performance Computing Facilities
   •   Other similar high-impact data processing or energy-intensive uses, whether as a primary
       or accessory use
This includes, but is not limited to:
   •   Rezoning applications and zoning map amendments
   •   Conditional zoning or special use permits
   •   Site plan approvals
   •   Zoning permits or certificates of zoning compliance
   •   Any other development approval required by law and administered by the Town


Section 2. Applicability
This moratorium shall apply to all properties within the corporate limits of the Town of Mayodan
and its extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ), if applicable.


Section 3. Exemptions
The following shall be exempt from this moratorium:
   1. Any project that has received a complete and valid development approval prior to the
      effective date of this ordinance, consistent with N.C.G.S. § 160D-107(c);
   2. Routine maintenance, repair, or interior improvements to existing structures that do not
      increase the intensity or capacity of a use;
   3. Uses that are clearly incidental and accessory to a permitted principal use and do not
      meet the definition of a high-impact facility.


Section 4. Statement of Problems and Conditions Necessitating the Moratorium
The Town Council finds that this moratorium is necessary due to the following conditions:
   •   The Town’s development regulations do not currently address data centers or similar
       high-impact facilities;




                                            Page 2 of 4


   •   Such uses may place substantial and immediate demands on public utilities, including
       electricity and water systems;
   •   These uses may generate noise and other impacts incompatible with nearby residential
       and commercial areas; and
   •   Without appropriate standards in place, approval of such development could result in
       adverse impacts that cannot be adequately mitigated under existing regulations.


Section 5. Plan of Action
During the period of the moratorium, the Town shall undertake the following actions, which will
be initiated immediately upon adoption of this ordinance and pursued on an expedited schedule:
   1. Develop and adopt definitions for data centers and related high-impact facilities;
   2. Evaluate and establish appropriate zoning districts where such uses may be permitted,
      conditionally permitted, or prohibited;
   3. Draft and consider development standards, including but not limited to:
           o   Noise limitations
           o   Setbacks and buffering requirements
           o   Utility capacity and infrastructure impacts
           o   Site design and operational characteristics;
   4. Submit proposed text amendments to the Planning Board for review and
      recommendation; and
   5. Conduct required public hearings and consider adoption of ordinance amendments by the
      Town Council.


Section 6. Duration
This moratorium shall remain in effect for a period of sixty (60) days from the date of adoption,
unless:
   •   Repealed earlier by the Town Council; or
   •   Extended in accordance with applicable law.
The Town Council finds that this duration is reasonably necessary to complete the initial study,
draft ordinance amendments, and begin the public review process within an expedited timeframe.




                                           Page 3 of 4


Section 7. Severability
If any provision of this ordinance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the remaining
provisions.


Section 8. Effective Date
This ordinance shall become effective upon adoption.


ADOPTED this ____ day of __________, 2026.




                                                    ________________________________
                                                                                    E. Dwight Lake
                                                                                              Mayor
ATTEST:


________________________________
Sarah Hopper
Town Clerk




                                            Page 4 of 4


TOWN OF MAYODAN, NORTH CAROLINA

ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON DEVELOPMENT
APPROVALS FOR CERTAIN SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS



WHEREAS, the Town of Mayodan is authorized under N.C. General Statute § 160D-107 to
adopt temporary moratoria on development approvals in order to protect the public health, safety,
and welfare; and

WHEREAS, the Town has recently experienced increased interest and inquiries related to the
development of utility-scale solar energy systems, commercial solar installations, and other
medium- to large-scale solar energy facilities; and

WHEREAS, such uses may create substantial and unique impacts, including but not limited to
land use compatibility concerns, visual impacts, stormwater runoff, glare, buffering and
screening issues, and potential impacts to adjacent residential, agricultural, and commercial
properties; and

WHEREAS, the Town is also experiencing the installation of solar energy systems associated
with commercial and industrial developments, including parking lot canopy systems and other
ground-mounted arrays that may function at a scale greater than typical accessory uses; and

WHEREAS, the Town’s current Zoning Ordinance does not contain specific definitions, use
classifications, or performance standards to adequately regulate solar energy systems of varying
scales and intensities; and

WHEREAS, the Town Council finds that immediate acceptance and approval of such
development applications without appropriate standards could negatively impact surrounding
properties, the built environment, and the overall character of the community; and

WHEREAS, the Town requires a limited period of time to study these uses and to develop
appropriate regulations, including use definitions, zoning district placement, and performance
standards; and

WHEREAS, a temporary moratorium is necessary to allow the Town sufficient time to
undertake this work in an orderly and deliberate manner within a compressed timeframe; and

WHEREAS, this moratorium is not intended to prohibit or impair the reasonable use of solar
energy systems serving residential properties as protected under N.C. General Statute § 160D-
914.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Mayodan:


                                           Page 1 of 4


Section 1. Moratorium Established

A temporary moratorium is hereby established on the acceptance, processing, and approval of
any development approval required by law for the establishment, construction, expansion, or
modification of the following uses:

   •   Utility-scale solar energy systems (solar farms or solar power plants)

   •   Commercial solar energy systems, including ground-mounted systems and solar canopy
       or carport-mounted systems associated with non-residential uses

   •   Other similar medium- to large-scale solar energy systems, whether as a primary or
       accessory use, that exceed the thresholds described below

For purposes of this section, the moratorium shall apply to solar energy systems that meet one or
more of the following criteria:
   •   Have a total rated capacity greater than 25 kilowatts (kW); or

   •   Occupy more than 1,000 square feet of surface area; or

   •   Are ground-mounted or canopy-mounted and are not attached to a principal building

This includes, but is not limited to:
   •   Rezoning applications and zoning map amendments
   •   Conditional zoning or special use permits
   •   Site plan approvals
   •   Zoning permits or certificates of zoning compliance
   •   Any other development approval required by law and administered by the Town


Section 2. Applicability

This moratorium shall apply to all properties within the corporate limits of the Town of Mayodan
and its extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ), if applicable.



Section 3. Exemptions

The following shall be exempt from this moratorium:

   1. Any project that has received a complete and valid development approval prior to the
      effective date of this ordinance, consistent with N.C.G.S. § 160D-107(c);




                                           Page 2 of 4


   2. Accessory solar energy systems serving residential uses, including roof-mounted or
      ground-mounted systems that are incidental to a dwelling unit and serve on-site
      residential consumption;

   3. Roof-mounted solar energy systems attached to an existing principal building that:

           o   Serve on-site consumption; and

           o   Do not exceed 25 kW in total capacity;

   4. Routine maintenance, repair, or replacement of existing solar energy systems that do not
      increase the size, footprint, or generating capacity of the system.



Section 4. Statement of Problems and Conditions Necessitating the Moratorium

The Town Council finds that this moratorium is necessary due to the following conditions:
   •   The Town’s development regulations do not currently address solar energy systems of
       varying scales;

   •   Utility-scale and commercial solar installations may create land use, visual, and
       environmental impacts not addressed by existing regulations;

   •   Medium-scale systems associated with commercial and industrial uses, including parking
       lot solar canopies, may function at an intensity greater than typical accessory uses; and

   •   Without appropriate standards in place, approval of such development could result in
       adverse impacts that cannot be adequately mitigated under existing regulations.



Section 5. Plan of Action
During the period of the moratorium, the Town shall undertake the following actions, which will
be initiated immediately upon adoption of this ordinance and pursued on an expedited schedule:

   1. Develop and adopt definitions for solar energy systems based on scale and use;
   2. Evaluate and establish appropriate zoning districts where solar energy systems may be
      permitted, conditionally permitted, or prohibited;
   3. Draft and consider development standards, including but not limited to:
           o   Setbacks and buffering requirements

           o   Height limitations

           o   Glare mitigation


                                           Page 3 of 4


           o   Stormwater and environmental considerations

           o   Decommissioning and abandonment requirements

           o   Design and operational characteristics

   4. Submit proposed text amendments to the Planning Board for review and
      recommendation; and

   5. Conduct required public hearings and consider adoption of ordinance amendments by the
      Town Council.



Section 6. Duration
This moratorium shall remain in effect for a period of sixty (60) days from the date of adoption,
unless:
   •   Repealed earlier by the Town Council; or
   •   Extended in accordance with applicable law

The Town Council finds that this duration is reasonably necessary to complete the initial study,
draft ordinance amendments, and begin the public review process within an expedited timeframe.



Section 7. Severability

If any provision of this ordinance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the remaining
provisions.



Section 8. Effective Date

This ordinance shall become effective upon adoption.



ADOPTED this ____ day of __________, 2026.

                                                      ATTEST:



______________________________                          __________________________________

E. Dwight Lake                                        Sarah Hopper
Mayor                                                 Town Clerk


                                            Page 4 of 4


NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
Town of Mayodan
Notice is hereby given that the Mayodan Town Council will hold a public hearing
on Monday, May 13, 2026, at 6:00 p.m. at the James A. Collins Municipal Building, 210 W.
Main Street, Mayodan, North Carolina.
The purpose of this hearing is to receive public comment on the proposed adoption of
a temporary 60-day moratorium on the acceptance and processing of applications for
solar farm developments and data center developments within the Town of Mayodan’s
jurisdiction. The moratorium is intended to allow the Town sufficient time to review and
consider potential amendments to the Town’s zoning ordinance and development
regulations related to these uses.
All interested citizens are invited to attend and be heard.
For additional information, please contact Mayodan Town Hall during normal business
hours at (336) 427-0241.
Sarah Hopper, CMC
Town Clerk
Town of Mayodan
Publish Date: April 30, 2026


Town of Mayodan Zoning
Special Use Case # SU-002-2026
Staff Report: Melody Shuler, Town Manager
Applicant:     Forbes Realty Consultants, Ken Mackovic Jr.
Owner:         Diane Best Purgason
Location:      N 7th Avenue (end of roadway)
GIS ID #:      791715543127; Parcel 167889
Request:       Special Use Permit to allow alternative street and pedestrian design (open-section streets
               in lieu of curb and gutter and no sidewalks)


Explanation of the Request:
SU-002-2026 is a request by applicant Ken Mackovic Jr. for a Special Use Permit to allow an alternative
street and pedestrian design for a proposed single-family residential subdivision located off N 7th Avenue
in the R-12 Residential Zoning District.

The proposed development consists of single-family residential lots, which are permitted by right in the
R-12 district. The Special Use Permit is required to allow deviations from traditional street design
standards, specifically the use of open-section streets (ditch sections with reduced pavement width) in lieu
of curb and gutter, and the omission of sidewalks or other pedestrian facilities.

Background:
The Town of Mayodan Zoning Ordinance currently requires streets to be constructed to NCDOT standards
and does not explicitly provide flexibility for alternative street cross-sections or pedestrian
accommodations.

To address this, the Town is concurrently considering Text Amendment TA-001-2026, which would
establish Section 5.25 – Alternative Street and Pedestrian Design Standards. This amendment would allow
for open-section streets and alternative pedestrian accommodations where appropriate.

The Special Use Permit request is contingent upon adoption of the text amendment and is intended to
apply those provisions to this specific development.

Location/Current Land Use:
The subject property consists of vacant land located at the terminus of N 7th Avenue. The site is partially
wooded and includes areas within the Mayo River WS-IV Critical Area.

Condition and Land Use of Surrounding Properties:
   •   North: Vacant / residential, zoned R-12 (Residential Low Density)
   •   South: Residential / town water treatment plant, zoned R-12 (Residential Low Density)
   •   East: Vacant / residential, zoned R-12 (Residential Low Density)
   •   West: Vacant / residential, zoned R-12 (Residential Low Density)


Special Use Permit Requirements:
The proper public hearing notices were sent by staff to all adjacent property owners and a sign was placed
on the subject property site at least 10 days prior to the date of the meeting.
The following should be considered when evaluating a special use permit application:
   1. Will the proposed use materially endanger the public health or safety?
   2. Will the proposed use comply with all regulations and standards generally applicable within the
      zoning district and specifically applicable to the particular type of special use or class of special
      uses?
   3. Will the proposed use substantially injure the value of adjoining property?
   4. Will the proposed use be in harmony with the area in which it is located?

Conditions may be attached to a Special Use Permit and must be agreed to in writing by both parties.

Analysis:
Use and Zoning
The proposed single-family residential use is permitted by right in the R-12 zoning district. The Special
Use Permit request is limited to alternative infrastructure design standards and does not involve a change
in land use.

Alternative Street Design
The applicant proposes an open-section street design utilizing roadside ditches and reduced pavement
width in lieu of curb and gutter.

The proposed design is consistent with the rural character of the surrounding area and is appropriate for a
low-density residential development. Final roadway design, including pavement width, cross-section, and
materials, will be subject to Technical Review Committee review and approval.

Pedestrian Facilities
No sidewalks or alternative pedestrian facilities are proposed.

There are no existing sidewalks or pedestrian facilities along N 7th Avenue, and the Draft Rockingham
County Comprehensive Transportation Plan does not identify planned pedestrian improvements in this
area.

Based on the absence of existing or planned pedestrian connectivity, staff finds that no reasonable
opportunity for pedestrian connection exists, and therefore a sidewalk or alternative pedestrian facility is
not required.

Watershed Compliance
A portion of the site is located within the Mayo River WS-IV Critical Area. The ordinance requires a
minimum lot size of one-half (½) acre within this area.

Public Safety and Access
The Fire Chief reviewed the proposed site plan and indicated that, while the current layout would allow
for adequate emergency response, the presence of a single point of ingress and egress is a concern. Due


to the potential limitations this may place on emergency access, the Fire Chief recommends consideration
of a secondary access point to improve response capabilities and overall site safety. If feasible, an
additional connection from Utility Street near the Town maintenance facility could be explored, including
the option of limiting such access to emergency use only. The Fire Chief also noted that the proposed
roadway widths, cul-de-sac dimensions, and fire hydrant placement appear adequate, and that on-street
parking should be manageable provided the minimum roadway width is maintained.

Drainage
The proposed open-section street design relies on ditch drainage. The applicant’s engineer has indicated
that the proposed roadway and ditch system is expected to meet applicable NCDOT and Town standards
for drainage. A drainage plan prepared by a licensed engineer will be required to demonstrate that
stormwater will be adequately managed without adverse impacts to adjacent properties. Final engineering
will be completed and reviewed through the Technical Review Committee and NCDOT review processes
in accordance with applicable regulations and standards to protect public health, safety, and welfare.

Staff Recommendation:
Staff recommends approval of SU-002-2026, a request for a Special Use Permit to allow alternative street
and pedestrian design for a single-family residential development in the R-12 zoning district, subject to
the following conditions:

   1. All alternative street designs shall comply with Section 5.25 – Alternative Street and Pedestrian
      Design Standards, if adopted.
   2. Final roadway design shall demonstrate adequate access of twenty (20) feet in width for emergency
      vehicles and maintained with applicable fire code requirements.
   3. A drainage plan shall be prepared by a licensed engineer demonstrating that the proposed open-
      section street and ditch system will adequately manage stormwater and not create adverse impacts
      to adjacent properties. Final drainage design shall be subject to Technical Review Committee
      approval.
   4. The applicant shall obtain all required erosion and sedimentation control permits from the
      appropriate regulatory authority prior to land disturbance.
   5. All utility infrastructure and connections shall be reviewed and approved by the Town prior to
      final plat approval.
   6. The development shall be subject to Technical Review Committee review prior to final plat
      approval. All comments and required revisions identified through the TRC process shall be
      addressed to the satisfaction of the Town.

The applicant has agreed to the proposed conditions in writing.

Planning Board:
The Planning Board reviewed the special use permit application on April 20, 2026, and approved a motion
for a favorable recommendation of SU-002-2026 with the above conditions. Motion passed 4:2 with
Norma O’Steen and Sammy Martin in opposition.

Member O'Steen expressed comfort with the existing ordinance language and raised concerns about the
quality of housing construction, while Member Martin opposed the alternative infrastructure standard.


Requested Action:
   •   Motion to approve Special Use Permit SUP-002-2026 with the recommended conditions, based
       on an affirmative determination of the required findings of fact.

Findings of Fact:
   •   Finding #1: The proposed use will not materially endanger the public health or safety.
   •   Finding #2: The proposed use will comply with all regulations and standards generally applicable
       within the zoning district and specifically applicable to the particular type of special use or class
       of special uses.
   •   Finding #3: The proposed use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining property.
   •   Finding #4: The proposed use will be in harmony with the area in which it is located.


Aerial Photo:




                                               Site




                                             Rockingham County GIS, Aerial, NCOneMap Latest


Conditional/Special Use Application

Town Of Mayodan
210 W Main St.
Mayodan, NC 27027
Application Fee $400.00

Petitioner's Full Name: En ches [oott, Covsolfanda
Petitioner's Mailing Address: PO yc eZ |! 7¢ & Tin he oat ef iN] AC

Email Address: Pe 2A) MACKOVIC S 2 LCLovd. com 273S€
Phone Number; (43 3 é) 430- GSOL

Property Owner's Name: P UCGaSON

Address of the Applicable Property: Voctd ott Ave. V/A; Lo Anes Ferre #- SC7SES4

Parcel Identification Number: / G7 SK 7 Current Zoning: RA o

Proposed Use: Klkkow Mhilt Eoud Clout z

| hereby petition the Mayodan town peal grant the issuance of:

Conditional Use Permit Uf Special Use Permit

It is understood that the authorized board may designate conditions that will, in its opinion,
assure that the use in its proposed location will be harmonious with the area in which it is
proposed to be located, with the spirit of the ordinance, and clearly in keeping with the
public welfare. All specific conditions shall run with the land and shall be binding on the
original applicant, their heirs, successors, and assigns unless otherwise noted in the Town of
Mayodan Zoning Ordinance. In the event of failure to comply with the plans approved by the
authorized board or with any other conditions imposed upon the Special Use Permit, the
permit shall thereupon immediately become void and of no effect. The designated board
may authorize modifications of original plans. A public hearing will be held by the Mayodan
Town Council,

Signature of Applicant: Focke S Re v i

Signature of Property Owner (If Different: ~~

Date: YV{i4/2L ; ( <
a



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOCATION MAP 1" = 1000'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0                                                                      °33'4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70                                                                                   4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CIVIL ENGINEERS   LAND SURVEYORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   24.1 E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LAND PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HEADSTONES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4970 US Highway 311 N #669, Walkertown, NC 27051
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OFFICE:(336) 748-0071 FAX:(336) 748-0470
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHARLES VAUGHN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WEB: www.bc-eng.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10TH AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12"HIGH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PIN 791714441850                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (BENT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Corp #: C-4017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DB 1422 PG 1791
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "E                                                                                                               04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16'07                                                                                                                4°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N74°                                                                                                                       S4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEAL:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '                                                   102'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         21 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AVE                        PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CA RO      FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        81.97                                                                                                         77
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TH
                                                                                                                                                                                1/2"EIP                                                                                                                                                                            536.65'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N88°42'40"E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WIL
                                                                                                                                                                                1"DEEP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5'31"E                                                                                    690                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KIN                                                                     REVIEW S S I OONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N 2nd
                                                                                                                                                                      2'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                             123.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N77°3             152'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T                                                                 NO                                             O            N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VIR
                                                                                                                                                                                           N57°3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                  1/2"EIP
                                                                                                                                    1"E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PR                          A
                                                                                                                             6°45'3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GIN                                                                                                                                SEAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                0'49"E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           th S
                                                                                                  5"HIGH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CP
                                                                                                                      N7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IA S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0th
                                                                                                  (BENT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 28'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T
                                                                                                                                                                                                42.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX                                                                                                                                                                                                              302.23'                                          82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ACH                            T                                                                                                    038574
                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                           1"SPIKE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S83°35'09                                                                                                                                            N84°03'39"E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "E                                                                                                                                                                 101'                                                                                                                                                          CEMETERY FROM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         117.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NG          R
                                                                                                                                                                               EIR                             700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DB 493 PG 275                                                                                                                                                        103'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A                                           INEE       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   119'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E                           E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L
                                                                53.11'                                                                                                      12"HIGH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NO DESCRIPTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JAC                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T. CAR
                                                                N29°13'03"E
                                                                                                                                                                             (BENT)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EIR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KSO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SITE AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROPOSED 40' x 80'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CEMETERY EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FLUSH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (BENT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DO NOT USE FOR
                                                                                             CP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4/8/2026
                                               46.38
                                               N49° '
                                                                                                                                                                                     39'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             765388 ±SQ FT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONSTRUCTION
                                                   16     '29"E                                                                                                                                                             6                                                           75'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  17.571 ±ACRES                         235
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12877 ±SQ FT                                                                      8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     □ Preliminary - Do Not Use for Construction
                                                           CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13374 ±SQ FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.307 ±ACRES                                                                                               0.296 ±ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        132'                           14046 ±SQ FT                             149'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           16433 ±SQ FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 170'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         51                                                                                    RAY DEMOSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         □ Final Drawing - For Review Purposes Only
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                      02'                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.322 ±ACRES                                                        0.377 ±ACRES                                                             10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAYO MOUNTAIN RD
                                                                                                                                                                    217                                        12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    68
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0                                                                                                                                                                     PIN 791700553694                                                                                          IMPORTANT NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         □ Final Drawing
                                                                                                                                                                        .                                        0'                   R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                22981 ±SQ FT                                                                                                                     279'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       63                           3'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.528 ±ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LEGAL NOT FOUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .0                   7                                      55                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Orange Line is the GIS data for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '                                                              '
                                                                                            OVERLAP AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11                                                                                         the Mayo River WS-IV Critical                                                                           52                                                                                                                                                                1.             This map is provided to show a proposed preliminary layout for streets and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5°
                                                                                                     72493 ±SQ FT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Area Water Supply Watershed.                                                                        S3                                                                                                                                                                                   lots. No further engineering design has been performed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              33935 ±SQ FT
                                                                                                     1.664 ±ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.779 ±ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '55
                                                                                                                                                        2 "E                                                                                                                                                                    28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "E                                                                                                                                                    2.             Building footprints and general site conditions may change upon final                                              PROJECT:
                                                                                                                                                                               69                                                                                                                                                                           46'
                                                                                                                                                       1'3                       0                                                                                     8. 0'                                                                                                                             100'                   10' Utility Easement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6'                                                                                                                                                                   engineering of site layout, grading, erosion control, storm drainage, utilities
                         CHARLES VAUGHN                                                                                                                                                                                                      W                       R4                                                                                                                                                                                                  78'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                                                                                                   5°2                                                                                                                                                                                                             Proposed Public Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mai                                                                                                             22 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         and building design. Subdivision approval and permitting is required prior
                             10TH AVE
                                                                                                                                                  N2                                            5                                                                                                  Proposed Public Sewer                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n set 3' from Edge of Pav
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ement                                                               93 '
                                                                                                    OVERLAP WITH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      to construction.
                                                                  280.98'
                         PIN 791714441850                                                                                                                                            29345 ±SQ FT                                                                                                                                                 Main to Run Center of                                                                                              W
                                                                                                 CHARLES VAUGHN                                                                                                                      72'                                                           R       SS>>                                                                          Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       26
                          DB 1422 PG 1791                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS>>                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                   DB 1422 PG 1791                                                                   0.674 ±ACRES                                                                                                   30 .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS>>                                                   STREET "A"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.2                                                                                                                                3.             Boundary shown is from a survey by Morgan Surveying and contains an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R/W                   0'                                                                                                                                         SS>>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20.0'                                         W                                                                                                                                12                                                                                                                                                                       4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .0   '                                 50' PUBLIC R/WSS>>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        249'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              overlap with adjacent deeds to the North. This site plan does not utilize any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         85067 ±SQ FT                                                                                                                          R                                                                                                                                                                             93                                                                         32271 ±SQ FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FH                                       1.953 ±ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '                                                                     0.741 ±ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of the overlap area
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2 2'                         59'                                                                                                                                                                                    SS>                      W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '                                                                                           W                                10' Utility75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         >                                                        FH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.             The state has confirmed this site is not subject to DEQ stormwater
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '                                                                          Easement                     9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 26   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '                                        .0'     31                                            3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               management requirements or any other stormwater program. The site as


                                                                     N4°42'53"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R3                                        R2                                                                                                                                                           13 5 '
                                                                                                                         EIR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      shown is planned to be low density and utilize ribbon pavement streets
                                                                                                                       12"HIGH                                                                                                                                                            91'                                                                                            24'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     24'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           93                                                                                                                670                                                                                          97 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      with side ditches. Vegetative conyenances will be utilized to the maximium
                                                                                                                                                               68                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     extent practical to clean storm water prior to release down slope.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mayodan, NC; Madison Township




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Single-Family Residential Subdivision
                                                                                                                                                                 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5'
                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              >>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Additional drainage easements will be required upon final engineering.
                                                                                                                         7                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13                                                                                                                                                               EIR
                                                                                                                  15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3                                                                 16486 ±SQ FT                                                                                                          24                                                                                                                                                                                         W                                                                                                                             5'                                                                                                      10"HIGH                                                                              5.             Site topo is from NC Spatial Data DEM03.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                138'                                                                                                W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25975 ±SQ FT                                                    23
                                                                                                                                                                                     '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.             Existing utilities are field located.
                                                                                                                                                                                31
                                                                                                                                                                                   5                                                                           12121 ±SQ FT                                                                0.378 ±ACRES                                                                                                 19727 ±SQ FT                                                        23                                                                                   13                                                                 2                                   0.596 ±ACRES                                                                                                                                             4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.278 ±ACRES                                                                                                                                                                             0.453 ±ACRES                                                                                                                                                5   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                58'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18925 ±SQ FT                                                                                                                                                6'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.             This site is located in the Roanoke River basin.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      101'                                                                                                                              0.434 ±ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8.             The portion of site shown in orange shading is in the Mayo River WS-IV
                                                                                       N3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20.0'                 115 '                                                                186'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Critical Area Water Supply Watershed. This data is from GIS layers and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1"E 0'
                                                                                         3°
                                                                                           15                                                                                                                                                                       105                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W   Pr o


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4'0
                                                                                             '55                                                                                                                                                                         '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    po                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the ridge line appears to be further NE. Survey topo collected for final




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N 7th STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Proposed Private
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    15
                                                                                                "E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              22                                                                             o                     se                                                                 t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4°3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Access Easement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          183
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1   0          p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >> d P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   en                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 engineering design will best determine the breakpoint for flows to the water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PUB VENU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        for Cook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SSose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       /W   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22448 ±SQ FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      intake area.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                  670                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.515 ±ACRES                                                                                                                                                 0'          Pa                       14                                                         3'
                                                                                                                                                                           4                                                                                                                                                      101                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ub                                                  10      of                      22922 ±SQ FT                                                  22                                                                                                                                          9.             Site has NO FEMA designated flood area.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ge W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                                                                    1/2"EIP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Re-Align Existing                                                                                                                                                                lic
                                                                                                                                                               43143 ±SQ FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ed                  SS        0.526 ±ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                              10.            This site contains an old cemetary and an easement is proposed to wrap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        28'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      w
                                                                    2"HIGH
                                                                                                                                                               0.990 ±ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Driveway; Remove                                                                                                                                                                   Se                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N 7T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Gravel




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PIN# 791715543127; Parcel #167889
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       en          om
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Remove Existing Pavement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           exsitng driveway                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 around the headstones found.
                                                                                   20'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         28'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             95 '                                         m          'f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r                      oa                                                                                                                                                       182
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           stem and gravel                                                                                                                                                                                               se        t3                         fR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXISTING 1.5 STORY                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1/2"EIP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ea         se                         ro                                                                                                                                                              .13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11.            The driveway for the Cook property is proposed to be re-align and a private
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX FH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ty          n                        te
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              tili         ai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1"HIGH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BRICK DWELLING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         23'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             n                                                                            660
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      access easement created for Cook to continue accessing their property at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CP      100.00'                                   N87°48'45"W                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               'U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           'U          r M                        Ce                     t
    Un-Named Tr
                 ibutary to May                                                                                                     660
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   57.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5                                                                                                                        99.62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                68'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21                                                 10          e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  at W                  >> u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     en                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the same location.
                               o River -->                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W                       S      R                     m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9'                                                                                                                                                                 '                              S    t o                    se
                                             89.22'                                      57'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N77°3                                                                                                                           39296 ±SQ FT                                       74 ubli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            c                          n                     Ea                                                                         15
                                                    '07"E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6'08"W              1/2"EIP                                                                                                                                                                                ai
                                             N26°05                                                                                                                                                                                                             1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.902 ±ACRES                                           P                         M                        ty
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tili
                                                                                                                                                                                                        247                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2"HIGH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       27011 ±SQ FT
                                                                                  "W                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     43659 ±SQ FT                                                                                                                                 5"W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.620 ±ACRES                                                                                           28'
                                                               7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SETBACKS FOR R-12 ZONING
                                                             N1 7.7                             CP                                                                                                                                                   1.002 ±ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CP
                                                               1° 5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              e Un   OE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               °48'0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Setbacks are shown with Magenta Lines
                                                                                                          47'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ww
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0'
                                                                 13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                                     CP             '2                                39. "E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          kno                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        69
                                                                      0
                                                                                                           8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9'                                                                                                                                                                    Front 30'
                                                                                                       1'4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13
                                                                                                    8°5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Side 10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R30.0'
                                                                                                   1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ; Siz
                                              53.40'                                             N     65                                                                                                                                                                        95                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               >>
                                                                                                          0                                                                                                                                                                        .2                                                            209                           ater                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Rear 20'
                                              N51°10'27"W                              CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '32"W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           132                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ex W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Street Side 15'
                                                                                                                                                   C/L CREEK                                                               25.19'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       35472 ±SQ FT                                                                                                                                                 5 9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROPERTY OWNER:
                                                                                                          CP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.814 ±ACRES                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N81°24                                                                                                                                                  .80'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STREET FOOTAGE SCHEDULE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Possible End of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    °41
                                                                                            35.53'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.0
                                                                                         65                                                                                                                                                                                                   State Maintenance                                                                 215                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EMAGENE COOK
                                                                                            0                                                                                                                  CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CP                       CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W                                    807 N 7TH AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 7th Street (Ext.)                    255 LF      THOMAS BERNARD PURGASON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R30.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >>
                                                                                                                               CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PIN 791714448183                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                                                            N55°06'18"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Street "A" (Proposed)                  925 LF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '45" 3'
                                                                                                                                                                                          CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .80'
                                                                                                               46.04'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DB 728 PG 284                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '                                           22544 ±SQ FT
                                                                                  66                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5042 NC Highway 770 PO Box 641
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 37.22'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1/2"EIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  72'
                                              AN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R4                                                                                                     23
                                                                                                                                                                                                S64
                                                                                   0                                                              CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                303                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.518 ±ACRES
                                                 DR                                                                                                                                                                      (WITNESS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S
                                               706 EW F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Stoneville, NC 27048-0641
                                                                                                               N51°00'50"W                                                                          °                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  21                                                                                                                                                                                                         650
                                                                                                                                                                                               36.9 51'59"
                                                                                                                                                                                 1/2"EIP                                                                                           8'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                             PIN WIL REE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              19
                                                                                                                                    41.03'
                                                                           0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    36'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S89°55'52"W
                                                       K      M         67                                                                                           4"
                                                                                                                                                                               (WITNESS)                                                                                                                                                                      OE
                                             DB 79171 INS S AN                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SS>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   9'
                                                                                                                                                                        W                                                                                                                                                                                                                         >
                                                129    4      T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3°2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           27418 ±SQ FT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Deed Book: 1566 Pg: 2501
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .01
                                                                                                                                                         77
                                                    5 P 44206                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.629 ±ACRES

                                                                                                                                    N57°10'52"W
                                                                                                                                                        S8 .04'                                                                                                                                                 2'2
                                                       G1     5                                 STE
                                                                                                                                                          0° 04                                                                                                                                                    6        "W                                                                                                                                                                   5"E                                                                                                                                                                               9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            284
                                                          922                                       PH                                                         '4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Existing Sanitary Sewer Main                                                       29                                                                                                                                                                                W                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                 704 ANIE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS>      W                CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               °48'1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            No Easement Found;
                                                                                                PIN WILK MATH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                >                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20' Sewer Easement Proposed                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SS>>
                                                                                                    7      IN       IS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 75                                      FH                     '
                                                                                                DB 91714 S ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Un                                                                                                 N18     SS>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           >                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '                                                    74                                                               207                                                                                                                                                                                    CLIENT / PREPARED FOR:
                                                                                                   158      430                                                                                                                                                                                                 OE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                 PB    5 P      8 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -N
                                                                                                    7 P G 432
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OE
                                                                                                                                                                        CAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                   am                                                                                                172
                                                                                                        G4                                                                    LC                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ed                                                                                               '                                         S
                                                                                                           2                                                             W        A
                                                                                                                                                                     PIN ILKIN RTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FORBES REALTY CONSULTANTS LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ibu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      640
                                                                                                                                                                     DB
                                                                                                                                                                         7 9 171 S ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ta                                                                                                                                                                         SS>>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ken Mackovic
                                                                                                                                                                        147     4                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      17
                                                                                                                                                                             9 P 444081                                                                 CO                                                                                                                                                  ry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                G1                                                                    700 NNIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6                                                   18                                                                                101877 ±SQ FT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PO Box 1125
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS>>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                    529                                                             PIN WILK FOX                                                                                                                                                   ay                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS>>                                                                                                                         26036 ±SQ FT                                                                                2.339 ±ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7    IN                                                    R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Summerfield, NC 27358
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DB 91714 S ST                                      VEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15'                                                                                                                                                                              0.598 ±ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                       51'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       777   44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PG 6011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SS>>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ph. No.: 336-430-9507
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S84°40'52"W               CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ->
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             113                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  60'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6                                   HA     PUB                                                                                                                                                                                                            142.35'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1/2"EIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1"HIGH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CP                                  CP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Email: kenmackovic5@icloud.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N 7T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CP                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           40'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         33'                                                                                                                                                                                                           630
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0'28"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6"W                                                                                    74. °35'4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            198'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS>>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  42.                                                                                                                                                                      39'                               77'                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S68 0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     °19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '3                                                                                                                                     W                CP     115.88'                          S87°45'59"W                      CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          >>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S13°1                                                                                                                                                                                          N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6'        9"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .6 '4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PATRICIA T MILLER                                                                                                                                                                                                            27 °44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     707 N 7TH AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                               N2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DAVID JONES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               17                620                                    SS                                                                                                                                                                                                         436 N 2ND AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PIN 791714438846                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           >                                                                                                                                                                                                      PIN 791715539864
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DB 0793 PG 0531                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >                                                                                                                                                        '

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        95.98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEGAL NOT FOUND                                                                    W                                                                                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C/L CREEK                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          62            30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6.0
                                                                                                                                 EIR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    63                         6'                                                             SS                                                                                                                        CP
                                                                                                                                FLUSH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0                                                                                          >>

                                                                                                   WIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             640                                                          N5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9°3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                           KIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8    '30                                                 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NC Grid - NAD83 (2011)
                                                                                                   40'         S         STR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "W          13
                                                                                                          PU                                                                               EIR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3'
                                                                                                            BLI
                                                                                                                     CR   EE
                                                                                                                       /W   T                                                            2"DEEP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOWN OF MAYODAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               501 UTILITY ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DATE: 04.01.2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PIN 791715532497
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LEGAL NOT FOUND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAWN BY: TBC / ATC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SS                                                                                    2"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                >>                                                                                                                                                                                       JOB NO.: 26-203
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S9°28'2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CP

                            ZONING                                                                                           OFF-STREET PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REVISIONS:
Existing Zoning:      R-12
                      ______________                                                   Proposed Uses: Single Family   Residential
                                                                                                       ___________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           04.08.2026 Lot 16 revised per planning comments
Proposed Zoning: R-12
                 ______________                                                        Parking Calc.: 2
                                                                                                     ____            Lot
                                                                                                            Spaces/______________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       259.67
                                                                                       Required Parking:     48
                                                                                                         ____________Spaces.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          >>
Type of Review Requested: ____________________
                          Waiver for C&G Streets w/ Sidewalks
                                                                                                             48
                                                                                       Parking Provided: ____________Spaces.
Jurisdiction: Town of Mayodan
             _________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               93 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.
              SITE SIZE AND COVERAGES                                                                      OFF-STREET LOADING (if applicable)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TYPICAL STREET SECTION (NTS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SS
Total Acreage:    17.571±
               ______________ Acres.                                                     Req'd Load/Unload Spaces: _______________                                                                                                                                                                                                 50' PUBLIC R/W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N3                                                                            Connection beyond this sewer manhole has not been
Watershed: Roanoke River & Mayo River WS-IV Critical Area WSW
             ______________________________                                              Load/Unload Spaces Provided: ____________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8°41                                                                     located. It is anticipated this manhole flows to the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               sewer treatment plan on the adjacent City property.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TYPICAL LOT LAYOUT R-12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '01
Site Coverages:                                                                          Size: ________ft. x ________ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "W                   S                                         1/2"EIP
                                       10.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    100 Minimum Frontage @ Building Line                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SCALE:                                               1" = 60'
        Building to Land:        _____________%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2"HIGH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10' Public                                                                                              50'                                                                                                10' Public
           Pavement to Land:             4.8
                                     _____________%                                                                                                                                                                                                         Utility                                                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY                                                                                              Utility                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30              0                         15                    30           60                                            120
                                                                                                                     BUFFERYARDS (if applicable)                                                                                                          Easement                                                                                                                                                                                                   Easement
           Open Space:                  84.8
                                     ______________%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8'                                               20'                                             6'                       6'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CP                                                  S3
                                                                                       Adjoining Zoning: R-12
                                                                                                        _______________________                                                                                                                                                                            SHOULDER                                               PAVEMENT                                     SHOULDER                    DITCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10' Public Utility Easement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5°42
           (Total = 100%)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30' Front S/B from R/W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '22
                                                                                       Type Required: None
                                                                                                     ________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.02                                0.02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "E                                                                       SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.08                                                                                                  0.08                                                                                                                                                  10' Side S/B (15' Street Side)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14
                                 2000
Building Sq. Footage (Max.): ___________ Sq. Ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4:1            3:1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.                                        12
                                                                                       Width Provided: ________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    40'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Proposed Bldg.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EIR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                     2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20' Rear S/B
Building Height: ____________ Stories                                                                                                                                                                                                 3"DEEP
                                                                                       Fence Option: _______Yes _______No                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3" S9.5B laid in two 1-1/2" lifts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50'       Envelope
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8'                          12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50' Public R/W                             2000 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                   INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                         DENSITY CALCULATIONS (if applicable)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18' Driveway                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2°                                                 S43°02'22"E                                                 © Beeson & Carter, P.A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0'-6"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30                               CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E   T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10' Side S/B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '1                                           7.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Y S R/W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9"W                                     CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Residential Collector Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   49'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHEET NO:
Water:         ________Public ________Private
                  X                                                                      Number of Units or Lots: 24
                                                                                                                 _______ Units/Lots                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1:1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TIL BLIC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C-1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Proposed BUA
Sewer:         ________Public ________Private
                  X                                                                      Density:    1.36
                                                                                                  __________ Units/Acre or Lots/Acre                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Home: 2,000 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         U     PU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Drives, SW & Patio: 1200 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CP
Streets:       ________Public
                  X           ________Private                                                                      0.73
                                                                                                               (__________ Acres/Unit or Acres/Lot)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8" ABC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL: 3,200 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S64°53'38"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  48.74'


4/10/26, 5:21 PM                              Special Use Application - Conditions of Approval • Superhuman



                                                                                                                         4

          Special Use Application - Conditions of Approval


     Me             Hi Ken, As we move forward with the Special Use Permit application (SUP-002-2… APR 9


     pcroofing123@gmail.com                                                                                    APR 9


     I think this ok.




     Me                                                                                                       8:00 AM


     Thank you!




https://mail.superhuman.com/thread/AAQkADRhMDUwNzNjLTIzNmUtNDkyYS04M2U3LWU1MWI2Y2FmY2ZmYQAQAPhVjcloHwxJsCBOOzbGqxY%…    1/1


                MAYODAN PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD/BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
                                 April 20, 2026 MEETING
                                   210 W Main Street
                                        6:00 P.M.

Members Present:                                Staff Present:
Sammy Martin                                    Melody Shuler, Town Manager
Ed Shelton
Norma O’Steen
Tania Carter
Amanda Joyce
Charles Menard

Members Absent:
Tom Watford – Chairman

Norma O’Steen called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m.

Approval of Minutes:
Upon a motion by Tania Carter, seconded by Amanda Joyce, the Board voted unanimously (6:0) to
approve the minutes of the March 19, 2026 meeting.

New Business:
Text Amendment TA-001-2026: Alternative Street and Pedestrian Design Standards
Melody Shuler, Town Manager, presented the Text Amendment application for alternative street and
pedestrian design standards. The application seeks to allow alternative infrastructure configurations—
specifically ribbon asphalt with open swale ditches in lieu of curb, gutter, and sidewalks—for new
residential development in appropriate circumstances.

The applicant’s representative, Ken, provided background on the proposed development, noting that the
subject property is a timbered parcel zoned R-12 requiring single-family residential use with minimum
12,000 square foot lots and 100-foot-wide lots. The targeted price point for homes is $400,000–$450,000
with approximately 2,000 square feet. He explained that the current town ordinance requires curb, gutter,
stormwater infrastructure, and sidewalks, which would increase development costs from approximately
$400 per linear foot to $1,000 per linear foot—roughly $1,000,000 total, or approximately $15,000 per lot
before engineering costs. He noted that the development could not be financially viable under those
requirements and that rezoning for smaller lots and higher density would otherwise need to be
considered. The proposed infrastructure would use ribbon asphalt construction with open swale drainage,
which would still require engineering review and approvals from NCDOT, NCDENR, and the Town.

Ken further noted that N 7th Avenue would serve as the sole access point to the development and is
currently 18 feet wide. The existing right-of-way on Utility Street measures 47 feet, which is below the
NCDOT minimum of 50 feet; he stated that additional right-of-way acquisition would be required for any


access improvements at that location. He noted the proposed drawings are preliminary and subject to
modification.

Public comments and Board discussion followed. A citizen (Connie) expressed concern about drainage
conditions on N 7th Avenue, noting that drainage in the area has worsened over the past several years,
that heavy rain events create significant runoff past her property, and that she would like to see street
improvements made prior to any new traffic being added to the corridor. She indicated that improper
grading of prior curb and gutter installation on Wilkins Street had negatively impacted her property. She
stated she desired higher-end housing in Mayodan but wanted stormwater and road conditions addressed
properly.

Another citizen (Emma Jean) stated she had no objection to the text amendment provided that proper
grading, stormwater management, and street improvements were incorporated, including widening of N
7th Avenue.

Board members discussed the item at length. Member Shelton noted the development’s connection to
Utility Street and confirmed that curb and gutter infrastructure is not currently present along the corridor.
Members Menard and Shelton expressed support for the text amendment, noting the cost implications
and the need to incentivize development of higher-quality housing in Mayodan. Member Menard
suggested the Town consider absorbing the cost of extending curb and gutter along N 7th Avenue as a
public road improvement to accommodate future development. Members Carter and Joyce also
expressed support, with Member Joyce noting that a prior development on Turner Road had been denied
because they didn’t have curb and gutter, and that stormwater management in the area is a broader Town
infrastructure issue. She noted that the absence of an alternative standard would likely deter future
residential development.

Members O’Steen and Martin expressed opposition. Member O’Steen stated she was comfortable with
the existing text and expressed concern about the quality of housing construction. Member Martin was
not in favor of the alternative standard. The Town Attorney (Eugene) clarified that adoption of a text
amendment does not create a cause of action or legal liability, and that any existing developer could apply
for their project to be considered under the new standard on an equal basis.

Motion was made by Charles Menard and seconded by Ed Shelton to send a favorable recommendation
to the Town Council for the text amendment request for curb, gutter, and sidewalk alternatives. Motion
carried 4:2 with Norma O’Steen and Sammy Martin in opposition.

Special Use Permit SUP-002-2026: Curb, Gutter, & Sidewalk Alternative for N 7th Avenue
Ms. Shuler noted that this item was related to the text amendment and had been discussed in depth
during the preceding agenda item. The Board proceeded to a vote.

Motion was made by Charles Menard and seconded by Ed Shelton to send a favorable recommendation
to the Town Council for the special use permit request for curb, gutter, and sidewalk alternatives at N 7th
Avenue. Motion carried 4:2 with Norma O’Steen and Sammy Martin in opposition.


Discussion:
Ms. Shuler noted a text amendment will be coming forward for data centers and solar farms.

Adjourn:
At 7:25 pm, a motion to adjourn was made by Ed Shelton, seconded by Charles Menard, and approved
unanimously (6:0).


 WRITTEN DECISION - SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR ALTERNATIVE STREET AND
                PEDESTRIAN DESIGN - N 7TH AVENUE

WHEREAS, an application was submitted by Forbes Realty Consultants, Ken Mackovic Jr.,
requesting a Special Use Permit to allow alternative street and pedestrian design for a proposed
single-family residential subdivision at property located at N 7th Avenue (GIS ID: 791715543127;
Parcel 167889); and

WHEREAS, the subject property is located within the R-12 Residential (Low Density) zoning
district, where single-family residential use is permitted by right and the requested alternative
street and pedestrian design standards are permitted pursuant to a Special Use under the Town of
Mayodan Zoning Ordinance; and

WHEREAS, the application proposes the use of open-section streets (ditch sections with reduced
pavement width) in lieu of curb and gutter, and the omission of sidewalks for a single-family
residential subdivision on currently vacant, partially wooded land within the Mayo River WS-IV
Critical Area; and
WHEREAS, notice of the public hearing was duly provided in accordance with applicable law,
and a public hearing was held by the Town Council at which all persons wishing to be heard were
given the opportunity, and all competent, material, and substantial evidence was received; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed the application on April 20, 2026, and voted 4:2 to
recommend approval of the Special Use Permit with conditions; and

WHEREAS, the Town Council, having considered the application, staff report, Planning Board
recommendation, and all evidence presented, makes the following findings in accordance with
N.C.G.S. § 160D-705(c):



FINDINGS OF FACT

   1. Public Health and Safety
      The proposed use will not materially endanger the public health or safety. The proposed
      roadway widths, cul-de-sac dimensions, and fire hydrant placement are adequate for
      emergency response. Adequate provisions for access, stormwater management, erosion
      control, and utility infrastructure can be met through compliance with applicable codes
      and the conditions imposed herein.

   2. Compliance with Ordinance Standards
      The proposed development complies with all applicable requirements of the Town of
      Mayodan Zoning Ordinance for the R-12 district, and the alternative street and pedestrian
      design standards are consistent with the provisions of proposed Text Amendment TA-
      001-2026 (Section 5.25 – Alternative Street and Pedestrian Design Standards). The


       Special Use Permit is contingent upon adoption of that text amendment and is capable of
       meeting all applicable development standards.

   3. Impact on Adjacent Property Values
      The proposed use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining properties. The
      surrounding area consists of vacant and residential properties in the R-12 zoning district,
      and the proposed single-family residential subdivision utilizing open-section street design
      is consistent with the low-density rural character of the area.

   4. Harmony with Surrounding Area
      The proposed use is in harmony with the area in which it is located. The open-section
      street design reflects the rural character of the surrounding neighborhood along N 7th
      Avenue, where no existing sidewalks or pedestrian facilities are present and no planned
      pedestrian improvements are identified in the Draft Rockingham County Comprehensive
      Transportation Plan. The development is consistent with the zoning designation and
      surrounding land uses.


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED
That the Town of Mayodan Town Council hereby APPROVES Special Use Permit SU-002-2026
for property located at N 7th Avenue, to allow alternative street and pedestrian design for a single-
family residential subdivision, as shown on the site plan submitted with the application, subject to
the following conditions:



CONDITIONS

   1. Alternative Street Design Standards
      All alternative street designs shall comply with Section 5.25 – Alternative Street and
      Pedestrian Design Standards, if adopted.

   2. Fire and Emergency Access
      Final roadway design shall demonstrate adequate access of twenty (20) feet in width for
      emergency vehicles and maintained in accordance with applicable fire code requirements.

   3. Drainage Plan
      A drainage plan shall be prepared by a licensed engineer demonstrating that the proposed
      open-section street and ditch system will adequately manage stormwater and not create
      adverse impacts to adjacent properties. Final drainage design shall be subject to Technical
      Review Committee approval.


   4. Erosion and Sedimentation Control
      The applicant shall obtain all required erosion and sedimentation control permits from the
      appropriate regulatory authority prior to land disturbance.

   5. Utility Infrastructure
      All utility infrastructure and connections shall be reviewed and approved by the Town
      prior to final plat approval.

   6. Technical Review Committee
      The development shall be subject to Technical Review Committee review prior to final
      plat approval. All comments and required revisions identified through the TRC process
      shall be addressed to the satisfaction of the Town.



Adopted this 11th day of May 2026.


                                                   ________________________________
                                                    E. Dwight Lake, Mayor

ATTEST:
______________________________
Sarah Hopper, Town Clerk


Town of Mayodan Zoning
Text Amendment Case # TA-001-2026
Staff Report: Melody Shuler, Town Manager
Applicant: Ken Mackovic Jr.

Background
The Town of Mayodan’s Zoning Ordinance currently requires streets to be constructed to North Carolina
Department of Transportation (NCDOT) standards and does not explicitly provide flexibility for
alternative street cross-sections or pedestrian accommodations.

As development patterns evolve and the Town seeks to balance infrastructure costs, rural character, and
environmental considerations, it is appropriate to allow alternative design options where traditional
curb/gutter and sidewalk construction may not be necessary or practical.

This amendment introduces flexibility for the use of open-section streets (ditch sections) and alternative
pedestrian facilities, while ensuring that public safety, drainage, and connectivity are maintained.

Proposed Text Change
Article VI – Special Uses and Development Standards
Add New Section 5.25 – Alternative Street and Pedestrian Design Standards

5.25 Alternative Street and Pedestrian Design Standards
a. Purpose
The purpose of this section is to provide flexibility in the design of streets and pedestrian facilities in
order to:
    • Reduce infrastructure costs
    • Preserve rural character
    • Promote environmentally sensitive design
    • Maintain safe and functional transportation networks

b. Alternative to Curb and Gutter (Open Section Streets)
In lieu of curb and gutter, the Town may approve open-section streets utilizing roadside ditches for
drainage, provided that:
     1. The design is prepared and certified by a licensed engineer;
     2. Adequate drainage is provided to prevent flooding, erosion, or standing water;
     3. Soil stabilization and erosion control measures are implemented;
     4. The street design is appropriate for the proposed development pattern and density, and
        demonstrates that an alternative design will function as well as or better than traditional curb and
        gutter in terms of drainage, safety, and maintenance;
     5. The street serves low-density residential development, rural areas, or areas where curb and gutter
        is not necessary for stormwater management;
     6. The design meets applicable NCDOT minimum construction standards unless otherwise approved
        by the Town;
     7. The Fire Chief and Public Works Director have reviewed and approved the design for access and
        maintenance purposes.
     8. Alternative street designs may include narrow pavement sections, rural street cross-sections, or
        reduced-width asphalt roadways (commonly referred to as ribbon-style pavement), where
        appropriate for low-volume residential development;


   9. The proposed street design shall demonstrate adequate access for emergency vehicles, including
      minimum travel widths, turning radii, and all-weather surface conditions sufficient to serve fire
      and emergency response needs.

c. Alternative to Sidewalks
In lieu of traditional sidewalks, the Town may approve alternative pedestrian accommodations, provided
that pedestrian connectivity and safety are maintained where a reasonable connection exists or is
planned. Acceptable alternatives may include:
     1. Multi-use paths (minimum 8 feet in width);
     2. Side paths or shared-use paths located within or adjacent to the right-of-way;
     3. Trails, greenways, or other off-street pedestrian facilities;
     4. Widened shoulders (minimum 4 feet) where appropriate;
     5. Internal pedestrian circulation systems that connect to existing or planned networks.

Where no existing or planned pedestrian facilities are present, and no reasonable opportunity for
connectivity exists, the Town may determine that no sidewalk, path, or pedestrian facility is required.

In making this determination, the Town may consider adopted plans, including but not limited to
comprehensive transportation plans, greenway plans, or other officially adopted infrastructure planning
documents.

d. Approval Criteria
Alternative street and pedestrian designs may be approved by the Town as part of site plan, subdivision,
or special use review upon finding that:
    1. The alternative design provides equal or better public safety than traditional curb, gutter, and
        sidewalk infrastructure;
    2. The design is consistent with the Town’s Land Development Plan and any adopted transportation
        or greenway plans;
    3. The alternative supports connectivity to adjacent properties or future development where
        applicable;
    4. Maintenance responsibilities are clearly defined;
    5. The design will not create adverse impacts to adjoining properties;
    6. The design provides adequate access for emergency services and will not impair fire protection
        or public safety response.

e. Limitations
    1. Alternative designs shall not be permitted where curb and gutter or sidewalks are necessary to
       address:
           o High traffic volumes
           o Safety concerns
           o Stormwater management constraints

Compatibility with Adopted Plans
The proposed amendment is consistent with the Town of Mayodan Land Development Plan and maintains
the Town’s commitment to safe, functional, and well-designed infrastructure. The amendment allows for
consideration of alternative street design approaches where appropriate, while preserving the Town’s
ability to require traditional improvements when necessary. This ensures development remains compatible
with existing and future land use patterns while supporting measured growth.


Staff Comments
This amendment provides a practical tool for the Town to evaluate development on a case-by-case basis.
It maintains appropriate safeguards while allowing flexibility that is more consistent with Mayodan’s scale
and development patterns.

Public Notice
The proper public hearing notices were provided for the text amendment.

Planning Board Recommendation
The Planning Board reviewed the text amendment application on April 20, 2026, and approved a motion
for a favorable recommendation of TA-001-2026. Motion passed 4:2 with Norma O’Steen and Sammy
Martin in opposition.

Member O'Steen expressed comfort with the existing ordinance language and raised concerns about the
quality of housing construction, while Member Martin opposed the alternative infrastructure standard.

Reasonableness and Consistency Statement
The proposed text amendment is reasonable and in the public interest as it allows for flexibility in street
design where appropriate, while maintaining the Town’s ability to ensure safe and functional
infrastructure. The amendment does not remove existing standards but provides an alternative approach
that may be applied based on specific site conditions.

The amendment is consistent with the Town of Mayodan Land Development Plan and supports the Town’s
goals of managed growth and compatible development. It ensures that new development can proceed in a
manner that is both practical and aligned with the Town’s adopted policies.

Requested Action
A motion to approve Text Amendment TA-001-2026 and the Reasonableness and Consistency Statement
as presented.


Text Amendment Application

Town Of Mayodan
210 in St. peer "2]
Mayodan, NC 27027 | 902 4- yay!
Application Fee $300.00 {

Applicant Full Name: Packt. Realt, Gs NSvO K aks
Mailing Address: ? Q Bex ] IDS C om mecsielQ rn AUC 2735

EmailAddress: oy mAackovic F Q) ALlLov0.can

Phone Number: (2 36 ) S30 - GSO 4

Article *§ Vf Sars}
Section: - wit zak 5. SS
Proposed Text: C5 dared.

Reason For Text Amendment: i i r Her Ie

Application must be completed in full and returned with a non-refundable $300.00
application fee to the Planning Department at least ten (10) days prior to the regularly
scheduled public meeting for the purpose of zoning text amendments. No application will be
considered until all required information is submitted.

Date:



Proposed Text Change
Article VI – Special Uses and Development Standards
Add New Section 5.25 – Alternative Street and Pedestrian Design Standards

5.25 Alternative Street and Pedestrian Design Standards
a. Purpose
The purpose of this section is to provide flexibility in the design of streets and pedestrian
facilities in order to:
    • Reduce infrastructure costs
    • Preserve rural character
    • Promote environmentally sensitive design
    • Maintain safe and functional transportation networks

b. Alternative to Curb and Gutter (Open Section Streets)
In lieu of curb and gutter, the Town may approve open-section streets utilizing roadside ditches
for drainage, provided that:
     1. The design is prepared and certified by a licensed engineer;
     2. Adequate drainage is provided to prevent flooding, erosion, or standing water;
     3. Soil stabilization and erosion control measures are implemented;
     4. The street design is appropriate for the proposed development pattern and density, and
        demonstrates that an alternative design will function as well as or better than traditional
        curb and gutter in terms of drainage, safety, and maintenance;
     5. The street serves low-density residential development, rural areas, or areas where curb and
        gutter is not necessary for stormwater management;
     6. The design meets applicable NCDOT minimum construction standards unless otherwise
        approved by the Town;
     7. The Fire Chief and Public Works Director have reviewed and approved the design for
        access and maintenance purposes.
     8. Alternative street designs may include narrow pavement sections, rural street cross-
        sections, or reduced-width asphalt roadways (commonly referred to as ribbon-style
        pavement), where appropriate for low-volume residential development;
     9. The proposed street design shall demonstrate adequate access for emergency vehicles,
        including minimum travel widths, turning radii, and all-weather surface conditions
        sufficient to serve fire and emergency response needs.

c. Alternative to Sidewalks
In lieu of traditional sidewalks, the Town may approve alternative pedestrian accommodations,
provided that pedestrian connectivity and safety are maintained where a reasonable connection
exists or is planned. Acceptable alternatives may include:
     1. Multi-use paths (minimum 8 feet in width);
     2. Side paths or shared-use paths located within or adjacent to the right-of-way;
     3. Trails, greenways, or other off-street pedestrian facilities;
     4. Widened shoulders (minimum 4 feet) where appropriate;
     5. Internal pedestrian circulation systems that connect to existing or planned networks.


Where no existing or planned pedestrian facilities are present, and no reasonable opportunity for
connectivity exists, the Town may determine that no sidewalk, path, or pedestrian facility is
required.

In making this determination, the Town may consider adopted plans, including but not limited to
comprehensive transportation plans, greenway plans, or other officially adopted infrastructure
planning documents.

d. Approval Criteria
Alternative street and pedestrian designs may be approved by the Town as part of site plan,
subdivision, or special use review upon finding that:
    1. The alternative design provides equal or better public safety than traditional curb, gutter,
       and sidewalk infrastructure;
    2. The design is consistent with the Town’s Land Development Plan and any adopted
       transportation or greenway plans;
    3. The alternative supports connectivity to adjacent properties or future development where
       applicable;
    4. Maintenance responsibilities are clearly defined;
    5. The design will not create adverse impacts to adjoining properties;
    6. The design provides adequate access for emergency services and will not impair fire
       protection or public safety response.

e. Limitations
    1. Alternative designs shall not be permitted where curb and gutter or sidewalks are necessary
       to address:
           o High traffic volumes
           o Safety concerns
           o Stormwater management constraints


                                   AGENDA ITEM COVER

Item for Agenda:   Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance – First Reading (Introduction)

Placement on       New Business
Agenda:

Presenter:         Melody Schuler, Town Manager

Description of     Background
Agenda Item or     On December 10, 2025, the Town of Mayodan received a final flood hazard
Other Pertinent    determination letter from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
Information for    notifying the Town that updated Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and a
Council:           Flood Insurance Study (FIS) report for Rockingham County will become
                   effective on June 10, 2026.
                   As a condition of continued eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program
                   (NFIP), the Town is required to adopt floodplain management regulations that
                   meet or exceed the standards of 44 CFR Part 60.3(d) prior to the June 10, 2026
                   effective date. Communities that fail to enact the required regulations risk
                   suspension from the NFIP, which would prohibit residents from obtaining
                   federally backed flood insurance.
                   North Carolina has updated its model Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance to
                   reflect the new FIRM and FIS data and current NFIP requirements. The
                   attached draft ordinance is based on the updated state model and has been
                   prepared to bring the Town into compliance with both state and federal
                   floodplain management standards.
                   Procedural Note
                   Because the ordinance includes a criminal penalty provision, North Carolina
                   General Statute § 160A-175 requires that it be introduced at one meeting and
                   formally adopted at a subsequent meeting. Additionally, NCGS § 160D-601
                   requires that a public hearing notice be published in a newspaper of general
                   circulation once a week for two successive calendar weeks, with the first
                   publication not less than 10 days nor more than 25 days before the hearing
                   date.
                   Tonight’s action is the formal introduction of the ordinance. A public hearing and
                   vote on adoption will be scheduled at the June 8th meeting to allow sufficient
                   time for required public notice.
                   Next Steps
                       •   Staff will publish the required public hearing notice in the newspaper for
                           two successive weeks.
                       •   A public hearing and second reading for adoption will be scheduled at
                           the next available Council meeting, prior to the June 10, 2026 FIRM
                           effective date.
                       •   Upon adoption, the ordinance and supporting documentation will be
                           submitted to the NC Division of Emergency Management and FEMA
                           Region 4.
                   Requested Action
                   Council is requested to receive the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance for a
                   first reading and introduction. Council should direct staff to proceed with
                   scheduling the required public hearing and second reading for adoption at the
                   June 8th meeting.


      TOWN OF MAYODAN FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE


ARTICLE 1.         STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES. .............. 2
 SECTION A.                STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION. ........................................................................................................ 2
 SECTION B.                FINDINGS OF FACT. ............................................................................................................................. 2
 SECTION C.                STATEMENT OF PURPOSE. ................................................................................................................. 2
 SECTION D.                OBJECTIVES. .......................................................................................................................................... 2
ARTICLE 2.         DEFINITIONS. ................................................................................................................................................ 3
ARTICLE 3.         GENERAL PROVISIONS............................................................................................................................ 10
 SECTION A.                LANDS TO WHICH THIS ORDINANCE APPLIES. .......................................................................... 10
 SECTION B.                BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS. ...................................... 10
 SECTION C.                ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. ................................................. 10
 SECTION D.                COMPLIANCE. ..................................................................................................................................... 10
 SECTION E.                ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS. ........................................................................... 10
 SECTION F.                INTERPRETATION. ............................................................................................................................. 11
 SECTION G.                WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY. .............................................................................. 11
 SECTION H.                PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION............................................................................................................ 11
ARTICLE 4.         ADMINISTRATION. .................................................................................................................................... 11
 SECTION A.                DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. .................................................................. 11
 SECTION B.                APPLICATION, PERMIT & CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS ................................................... 11
 SECTION C.                DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. ......................... 15
 SECTION D.                CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES. ........................................................................................................... 16
 SECTION E.                VARIANCE PROCEDURES. ................................................................................................................ 18
ARTICLE 5.         PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION. ........................................................................... 20
 SECTION A.                GENERAL STANDARDS. .................................................................................................................... 20
 SECTION B.                SPECIFIC STANDARDS. ..................................................................................................................... 21
 SECTION C.                RESERVED. ........................................................................................................................................... 25
 SECTION D.                STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS . 25
 SECTION E.   STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
 WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS....................................................... 26
 SECTION F.                FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS. ................................................................... 26
 SECTION G.                 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO). ........................................... 26
 SECTION H.                STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AH). ............................................ 27
ARTICLE 6.         LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS. ................................................................................................................ 27
 SECTION A.   EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
 PREVENTION ORDINANCE. ............................................................................................................................................. 27
 SECTION B.                EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS. .............................. 27
 SECTION C.                SEVERABILITY. ................................................................................................................................... 27
 SECTION D.                EFFECTIVE DATE. ............................................................................................................................... 27
 SECTION E.                ADOPTION CERTIFICATION. ............................................................................................................ 28



                                                                                                                                                                                 1


                           FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE

                                            Non-Coastal Regular Phase

ARTICLE 1.          STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.

SECTION A.           STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.

The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in Part 6 of Article 21 of Chapter 143; Article 6 of Chapter 153A; Article 8
of Chapter 160A; and Articles 1, 7, 9, and 11 of Chapter 160D of the North Carolina General Statutes, delegated to local
governmental units the authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare.

Therefore, the Town Council of Mayodan, North Carolina, does ordain as follows:


SECTION B.           FINDINGS OF FACT.

(1)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of Mayodan are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life,
      property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
      expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
      health, safety, and general welfare.

(2)    These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions, both inside and outside the identified Special
       Flood Hazard Areas, causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the occupancy in flood prone areas by
       uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards. These obstructions and occupancy by uses vulnerable to floods may be
       hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise unprotected from flood damages.


SECTION C.           STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.

It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:

(1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards or that result
      in damaging increases in erosion, flood heights or velocities;

(2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the
      time of initial construction;

(3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers, which are involved in the
      accommodation of floodwaters;

(4)    Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may increase erosion or flood damage; and

(5)    Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase
       flood hazards to other lands.

SECTION D.           OBJECTIVES.

The objectives of this ordinance are to:

(1)   Protect human life, safety, and health;

(2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;

(3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the


                                                                                                                               2


       general public;

(4)    Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;

(5)    Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water and gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines,
       streets, and bridges) that are located in flood prone areas;

(6)    Minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;

(7)    Make flood insurance available to the community through the National Flood Insurance Program;

(8)    Maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;

(9)    Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of flood prone areas; and

(10)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a Special Flood Hazard Area.


ARTICLE 2.           DEFINITIONS.

Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning
they have in common usage and to give this ordinance its most reasonable application.

“A Zone” is the Special Flood Hazard Area subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood where base flood elevations
have NOT been determined.

“AE Zone” is the Special Flood Hazard Area subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood where base flood elevations
have been determined by detailed or limited detailed methods.

“Accessory Structure (Appurtenant Structure)” means a structure located on the same parcel of property as the principal
structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage sheds are common
urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like qualify as accessory structures on farms and may or may not be
located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.

“Addition (to an existing building)” means an extension or increase in the floor area or height of a building or structure.

“AH Zone” is the Special Flood Hazard Area with a 1% annual chance of shallow flooding (usually areas of ponding), where
average depths are between one (1) and three (3) feet. Base flood elevations derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown
in this zone.

“Alteration of a watercourse” means a dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change in channel alignment, channelization,
or change in cross-sectional area of the channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which may alter,
impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine flow of water during conditions of the base flood.

“AO Zone” is the Special Flood Hazard Area with a 1% annual chance of shallow flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain) where average depths are between one (1) and three (3) feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic
analyses are shown in this zone.

“Appeal” means a request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's interpretation of any provision of this ordinance.

“Area of Shallow Flooding” means a designated Zone AO or AH on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with
base flood depths determined to be from one (1) to three (3) feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does
not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding
is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.

“Area of Special Flood Hazard” see “Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA)”.

“Area of Future-Conditions Flood Hazard” means the land area that would be inundated by the 1-percent-annual-chance (100-
year) flood based on future-conditions hydrology.

                                                                                                                                3


“Base Flood” means the flood having a one (1) percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.

“Base Flood Elevation (BFE)” means a determination of the water surface elevations of the base flood as published in the Flood
Insurance Study. When the BFE has not been provided in a “Special Flood Hazard Area”, it may be obtained from engineering
studies available from a Federal, State, or other source using FEMA approved engineering methodologies. This elevation,
when combined with the “Freeboard”, establishes the “Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation”.

“Basement” means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.

“Building” see “Structure”.

“Chemical Storage Facility” means a building, portion of a building, or exterior area adjacent to a building used for the storage
of any chemical or chemically reactive products.

“Community” means any State or area or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian tribe or authorized tribal organization,
which has authority to adopt and enforce flood plain management regulations for the areas within its jurisdiction.

“Community Floodplain Management Map” means any map produced by the community utilizing best available base flood
elevation and floodway data that is from a federal, state, or other accepted technical source.

“Community Rating System (CRS)” means a program developed by the Federal Insurance Administration to provide incentives
for those communities in the Regular Program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.

“Critical facility (also called critical action)” means facilities for which the effects of even a slight chance of flooding would
be too great. The minimum floodplain of concern for critical facilities is the 0.2 percent chance flood level. Critical facilities
include, but are not limited to facilities critical to the health and safety of the public such as: emergency operations centers,
designated public shelters, schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response installations, vital data
storage centers, power generation and water and other utilities (including related infrastructure such as principal points of utility
systems) and installations which produce, use, or store hazardous materials or hazardous waste.

“Design Flood” See “Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation.”

“Development” means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings
or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or
materials.

“Development Activity” means any activity defined as Development which will necessitate a Floodplain Development Permit.
This includes buildings, structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill, bulkheads, piers, pools, docks,
landings, ramps, and erosion control/stabilization measures.

“Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM)” means the digital official map of a community, issued by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), on which both the Special Flood Hazard Areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community are delineated.

“Disposal” means, as defined in NCGS 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing
of any solid waste into or on any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid waste may enter the
environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including groundwaters.

“Dry Floodproofing” means a combination of measures that make a building and attendant utilities and equipment watertight
and substantially impermeable to floodwater, with structural components having the capacity to resist flood loads. Please refer
to Technical Bulletin 3, Requirements for the Design and Certification of Dry Floodproofed Non-Residential and Mixed-Use
Buildings, and available from the FEMA.

“Elevated Building” means a non-basement building which has its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by
foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.

“Encroachment” means the advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation, buildings, structures or development into a special
flood hazard area, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.

                                                                                                                                   4


“Existing building and existing structure” means any building and/or structure for which the “start of construction” commenced
before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community, dated June 11, 2007.

“Existing Manufactured Home Park or Manufactured Home Subdivision” means a manufactured home park or subdivision
for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at
a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete
pads) is completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community, dated June
11, 2007.

“Expansion to an Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision” means the preparation of additional sites by the
construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the installation
of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).

“Flood” or “Flooding” means:

      (a)    A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
             (1) The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
             (2) The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
             (3) Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of
                   this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas,
                   as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.

      (b)     The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of water as a result of erosion or
      undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
      unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of
      nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which
      results in flooding as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this definition.

“Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM)” means an official map of a community, issued by the FEMA, on which the
Special Flood Hazard Areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a supplement to and shall be used in
conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).

“Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM)” means an official map of a community, issued by the FEMA, where the boundaries
of the Special Flood Hazard Areas have been defined as Zone A.

“Flood Insurance” means the insurance coverage provided under the National Flood Insurance Program.

“Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)” means an official map of a community, issued by the FEMA, on which both the Special
Flood Hazard Areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated. (see also DFIRM)

“Flood Insurance Study (FIS)” means an examination, evaluation, and determination of flood hazards, corresponding water
surface elevations (if appropriate), flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the FEMA. The
Flood Insurance Study report includes Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps
(FBFMs), if published.

“Flood Prone Area” see “Floodplain”

“Flood Zone” means a geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects
the severity or type of flooding in the area.

“Floodplain” means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source.

“Floodplain Administrator” is the individual appointed by the community to administer and enforce the floodplain management
regulations.

“Floodplain Development Permit” means any type of permit that is required in conformance with the provisions of this
ordinance, prior to the commencement of any development activity.

“Floodplain Management” means the operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood
damage and preserving and enhancing, where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited to,
                                                                                                                               5


emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management regulations, and open space plans.

“Floodplain Management Regulations” means this ordinance and other zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building
codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes federal, state
or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.

“Floodproofing” means any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which
reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities, structures, and their
contents.

“Flood-resistant material” means any building product [material, component or system] capable of withstanding direct and
prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours) with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost cosmetic
repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-
grade use, is not flood-resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers are acceptable flooring materials.
Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively after submergence are not flood-resistant. Please
refer to Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, and available from the FEMA. Class 4 and 5
materials, referenced therein, are acceptable flood-resistant materials.

“Floodway” means the channel of a river or other watercourse, including the area above a bridge or culvert when applicable,
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water
surface elevation more than one (1) foot.

“Floodway encroachment analysis” means an engineering analysis of the impact that a proposed encroachment into a floodway
or non-encroachment area is expected to have on the floodway boundaries and flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge. The evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified North Carolina licensed engineer using standard engineering
methods and hydraulic models meeting the minimum requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program.

“Freeboard” means the height added to the BFE to account for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave action, blockage of bridge or
culvert openings, precipitation exceeding the base flood, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the watershed. The BFE
plus the freeboard establishes the “Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation”.

“Functionally Dependent Facility” means a facility which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located in close
proximity to water, limited to a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.

“Hazardous Waste Management Facility” means, as defined in NCGS 130A, Article 9, a facility for the collection, storage,
processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.

“Highest Adjacent Grade (HAG)” means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, immediately
next to the proposed walls of the structure.

“Historic Structure” means any structure that is:

       (a)    Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the US Department of
              Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing
              on the National Register;
       (b)    Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as contributing to the historical significance of
              a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered
              historic district;
       (c)    Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in communities with a “Certified Local Government
              (CLG) Program”; or
       (d)    Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a historic district designated by a community with a
              “Certified Local Government (CLG) Program.”

      Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the US Department of the Interior in cooperation with the
      North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having met the
      requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as amended in 1980.

                                                                                                                                 6


“Letter of Map Change (LOMC)” means an official determination issued by FEMA that amends or revises an effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance Study. Letters of Map Change include:

       (a)    Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter, to an effective National Flood Insurance
              Program map. A LOMA is based on technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as
              being in the floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood elevation. A LOMA amends
              the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or
              structure is not located in a special flood hazard area.
       (b)    Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): A revision based on technical data that may show changes to flood zones, flood
              elevations, special flood hazard area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
       (c)    Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F): A determination that a structure or parcel of land has been
              elevated by fill above the BFE and is, therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order
              to qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in accordance with the community’s
              floodplain management regulations.
       (d)    Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and comment as to whether a proposed project
              complies with the minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
              hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance Study; upon
              submission and approval of certified as-built documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may be issued by FEMA
              to revise the effective FIRM.

“Light Duty Truck” means any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds Gross Vehicular Weight Rating or less which has a
vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined in
40 CFR 86.082-2 and is:

       (a)    Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is a derivation of such a vehicle, or
       (b)    Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity of more than 12 persons; or
       (c)    Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway operation and use.

“Lowest Adjacent Grade (LAG)” means the lowest elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio slab immediately next to the
building, or deck support, after completion of the building.

“Lowest Floor” means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant
enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than a basement area is not
considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this ordinance.

“Manufactured Home” means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term “manufactured
home” does not include a “recreational vehicle”.

“Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision” means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more
manufactured home lots for rent or sale.

“Map Repository” means the location of the official flood hazard data to be applied for floodplain management. It is a central
location in which flood data is stored and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the application of digital
flood hazard data products have the same authority as hard copy products. Therefore, the NCEM’s Floodplain Mapping
Program websites house current and historical flood hazard data. For effective flood hazard data the NC FRIS website
(http://FRIS.NC.GOV/FRIS) is the map repository, and for historical flood hazard data the FloodNC website
(http://FLOODNC.GOV/NCFLOOD) is the map repository.

“Market Value” means the building value, not including the land value and that of any accessory structures or other
improvements on the lot. Market value may be established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value); or adjusted tax assessed values.

“New Construction” means structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of the
initial floodplain management regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.

“New Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision” means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction
of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation
of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the
                                                                                                                                    7


effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.

“Non-Conversion Agreement” means a document stating that the owner will not convert or alter what has been constructed and
approved. Violation of the agreement is considered a violation of the ordinance and, therefore, subject to the same enforcement
procedures and penalties. The agreement must be filed with the recorded deed for the property. The agreement must show the
clerk’s or recorder’s stamps and/or notations that the filing has been completed.

“Non-Encroachment Area (NEA)” means the channel of a river or other watercourse, including the area above a bridge or
culvert when applicable, and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1) foot as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.

“Post-FIRM” means construction or other development for which the “start of construction” occurred on or after the effective
date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map.

“Pre-FIRM” means construction or other development for which the “start of construction” occurred before July 3, 2007, the
effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map.

“Principally Above Ground” means that at least 51 percent of the actual cash value of the structure is above ground.

“Public Safety” and/or “Nuisance” means anything which is injurious to the safety or health of an entire community or
neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner,
of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.

“Recreational Vehicle (RV)” means a vehicle, which is:

      (a)    Built on a single chassis;
      (b)    400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
      (c)    Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
      (d)    Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as temporary living quarters for recreational,
             camping, travel, or seasonal use, and
      (e)    Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      (f)    Has no attached deck, porch, or shed, and
      (g)    Has quick-disconnect sewage, water, and electrical connectors.

For the purpose of this ordinance: “Tiny Homes/Houses” and Park Models that do not meet the items listed above are not
considered Recreational Vehicles and should meet the standards of and be permitted as Residential Structures under this
ordinance.

“Reference Level” is the top of the lowest floor for structures within Special Flood Hazard Areas designated as Zones A, AE,
AH, AO, A99. The reference level is the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor for structures
within Special Flood Hazard Areas designated as Zone VE.

“Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation” means the “Base Flood Elevation” plus the “Freeboard”. In “Special Flood Hazard
Areas” where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet of
freeboard. In “Special Flood Hazard Areas” where no BFE has been established, this elevation shall be at least two feet
above the highest adjacent grade.

 “Remedy a Violation” means to bring the structure or other development into compliance with state and community floodplain
management regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts may be
reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial exposure with regard
to the structure or other development.

“Repetitive Loss” means flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a 10-year period for
which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25 percent of the market value
of the structure before the damage occurred.

“Repetitive Loss Property” means any insurable building for which two or more claims of more than $1,000 were paid by the
National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) within any rolling 10-year period, since 1978. At least two of the claims must be

                                                                                                                              8


more than ten days apart but, within ten years of each other. A RL property may or may not be currently insured by the NFIP.

“Riverine” means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream, brook, etc.

“Salvage Yard” means any non-residential property used for the storage, collection, and/or recycling of any type of equipment,
and including but not limited to vehicles, appliances and related machinery.

“Section 1316” means that section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, which states that no new flood
insurance coverage shall be provided for any property that FEMA finds has been declared by a duly constituted state or local
zoning authority or other authorized public body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that are
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood-prone areas.

“Severe Repetitive Loss Structure” means any insured property that has met at least one of the following paid flood loss criteria
since 1978, regardless of ownership. In either case, two of the claim payments must have occurred within ten years of each
other. Multiple losses at the same location within ten days of each other are counted as one loss, with the payment amounts
added together.
       1. Four or more separate claim payments of more than $5,000 each (including building and contents payments); or
       2. Two or more separate claim payments (building payments only) where the total of the payments exceeds the current
           market value of the property.

“Solid Waste Disposal Facility” means any facility involved in the disposal of solid waste, as defined in NCGS 130A-
290(a)(35).

“Solid Waste Disposal Site” means, as defined in NCGS 130A-290(a)(36), any place at which solid wastes are disposed of by
incineration, sanitary landfill, or any other method.

“Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA)” means the land in the floodplain subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of being
flooded in any given year, as determined in Article 3, Section B of this ordinance.

“Start of Construction” includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within 180
days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the
main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling,
floor, or other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.

“Structure” means a walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas, liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is
principally above ground.

“Substantial Damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any one-year period whereby the cost of
restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred. See definition of “substantial improvement”.

“Substantial Improvement” means any combination of repairs, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement
of a structure, taking place during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of
the structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
“substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:

       (a)    Any correction of existing violations of state or community health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
              have been identified by the community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure
              safe living conditions; or
       (b)    Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued
              designation as a historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant to Article 4 Section
              E of this ordinance.

“Technical Bulletin and Technical Fact Sheet” means a FEMA publication that provides guidance concerning the building
                                                                                                                               9


performance standards of the NFIP, which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations at Section 60.3.
The bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by State and local officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing
NFIP regulations and by members of the development community, such as design professionals and builders. New bulletins,
as well as updates of existing bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create regulations; rather they
provide specific guidance for complying with the minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.

“Temperature Controlled” means having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or cooling system, built-in or appliance.

“Variance” is a grant of relief from the requirements of this ordinance.

“Violation” means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the community's floodplain
management regulations. A structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other
evidence of compliance required in Articles 4 and 5 is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.

“Water Surface Elevation (WSE)” means the height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.

“Watercourse” means a lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other topographic feature on or over which waters flow at
least periodically. Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood damage may occur.

“X Zones” means areas determined to be low to moderate risk flood zones and are located outside the community’s
delineated Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) and include the following:
     (a) Shaded - is the area of moderate flood hazard and can represent:
             (3) 0.2% annual chance flood hazard area (500-year flood zone),
             (3) Areas of 1% annual chance flood with average depth less than one (1) foot, or
             (3) Areas of 1% annual chance flood with drainage areas of less than one (1) square mile
     (a) Unshaded - is the area of minimal flood hazard determined to be outside of the 0.2% annual chance flood (500-year
         flood zone).


ARTICLE 3.           GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SECTION A.           LANDS TO WHICH THIS ORDINANCE APPLIES.

This ordinance shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas within the jurisdiction, including Extra-Territorial Jurisdictions
(ETJs), as allowed by law, in the Town of Mayodan.

SECTION B.           BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.

The Special Flood Hazard Areas are those identified under the Cooperating Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State
of North Carolina and FEMA in its FIS dated July 3, 2007 for Rockingham County and associated DFIRM panels, including
any digital data developed as part of the FIS, which are adopted by reference and declared a part of this ordinance, and all
revisions thereto.

SECTION C.           ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.

A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this ordinance prior to the
commencement of any development activities within Special Flood Hazard Areas determined in accordance with the provisions
of Article 3, Section B of this ordinance.

SECTION D.           COMPLIANCE.

No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, altered, or developed in any way without full compliance
with the terms of this ordinance and other applicable regulations.

SECTION E.           ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.

This ordinance is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However,
where this ordinance and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
                                                                                                                                 10


SECTION F.            INTERPRETATION.

In the interpretation and application of this ordinance, all provisions shall be:

       (a)    Considered as minimum requirements;
       (b)    Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
       (c)    Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under State statutes.

SECTION G.            WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.

The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
scientific and engineering consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be increased by man-
made or natural causes. This ordinance does not imply that land outside the Special Flood Hazard Areas or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This ordinance shall not create liability on the part of the Town
of Mayodan or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this ordinance or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.

SECTION H.            PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.

Violation of the provisions of this ordinance or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions
and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor
pursuant to NC G.S. § 143-215.58. Any person who violates this ordinance or fails to comply with any of its requirements
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100.00. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Town of Mayodan from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.

ARTICLE 4.            ADMINISTRATION.

SECTION A.            DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.

The Town Manager, hereinafter referred to as the “Floodplain Administrator”, is hereby appointed to administer and implement
the provisions of this ordinance. In instances where the Floodplain Administrator receives assistance from others to complete
tasks to administer and implement this ordinance, the Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for the coordination and
community’s overall compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program and the provisions of this ordinance.

SECTION B.            FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
                      REQUIREMENTS.

(1)    Application Requirements. Application for a Floodplain Development Permit shall be made to the Floodplain
       Administrator prior to any development activities located within Special Flood Hazard Areas. The following items shall
       be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain development permit:

       (a)    A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following specific details of the
              proposed floodplain development:

              (i)     The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of development/disturbance; existing and
                      proposed structures, utility systems, grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage
                      facilities, and other development;

              (ii)    The boundary of the Special Flood Hazard Area as delineated on the FIRM or other flood map as
                      determined in Article 3, Section B, or a statement that the entire lot is within the Special Flood Hazard
                      Area;

              (iii)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as determined on the FIRM or other flood
                      map as determined in Article 3, Section B;

              (iv)    The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as determined in Article 3, Section B;

              (v)     The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in Article 3, Section B; Article 4, Section C;
                                                                                                                               11


                    or Article 5, Section D;

            (vi)    The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed
                    development; and

      (b)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a Special Flood Hazard Area including but
            not limited to:

            (i)     Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference level (including basement) of all structures;

            (ii)    Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any non-residential structure in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99
                    will be floodproofed; and

            (iii)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed utility systems will be elevated or
                    floodproofed.

      (c)   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34) with supporting data, an operational plan,
            and an inspection and maintenance plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and maintenance
            of floodproofing measures.

      (d)   A Foundation Plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of the proposed foundation system to ensure all
            provisions of this ordinance are met. These details include but are not limited to:

            (i)     The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill, solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled
                    foundation, open foundation on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and

            (ii)    Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces on walls in accordance with
                    Article 5, Section B(4)(d) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE, AH, AO,
                    A99.

      (e)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.

      (f)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
            systems to be located and constructed to minimize flood damage.

      (g)   Certification that all other Local, State and Federal permits required prior to floodplain development permit
            issuance have been received.

      (h)   Documentation for placement of Recreational Vehicles and/or Temporary Structures, when applicable, to ensure
            that the provisions of Article 5, Section B, subsections (6) and (7) of this ordinance are met.

      (i)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation, when applicable, including an engineering report
            on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
            properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of
            the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.

(2)   Permit Requirements. The Floodplain Development Permit shall include, but not be limited to:

      (a)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under the floodplain development permit (e.g.
            house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead, cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation
            or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.) including a cost estimate.

      (b)   The Special Flood Hazard Area determination for the proposed development in accordance with available data
            specified in Article 3, Section B.

      (c)   The Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation required for the reference level and all attendant utilities.

      (d)   The Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation required for the protection of all public utilities.


                                                                                                                               12


      (e)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.

      (f)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area
            of any watercourse unless the requirements of Article 5, Section F have been met.

      (g)   The flood openings requirements.

      (h)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable). (i.e., parking, building access and limited storage
            only).

      (i)   A statement, that all materials below BFE/RFPE must be flood resistant materials.

(3)   Certification Requirements.

      (a)   Elevation Certificates

            (i)     An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form FF-206-FY-22-152) is required prior to the actual start of any new
                    construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
                    certification of the elevation of the reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. The Floodplain
                    Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
                    corrected by the permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or
                    failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit.

            (ii)    An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form FF-206-FY-22-152) or floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form FF-
                    206-FY-21-122) is required after the reference level is established. Within seven (7) calendar days of
                    establishment of the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
                    Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988.
                    Any work done within the seven (7) day calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall
                    be at the permit holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
                    Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to
                    further work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
                    corrections shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.

            (iii)   A final Finished Construction Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form FF-206-FY-22-152) is required after
                    construction is completed and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty
                    of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built construction
                    of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
                    the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
                    immediately and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy issuance. In some instances, another
                    certification may be required to certify corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification
                    or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a Certificate of
                    Compliance/Occupancy. The Finished Construction Elevation Certificate certifier shall provide at least 2
                    photographs showing the front and rear of the building taken within 90 days from the date of certification.
                    The photographs must be taken with views confirming the building description and diagram number
                    provided in Section A. To the extent possible, these photographs should show the entire building including
                    foundation. If the building has split-level or multi-level areas, provide at least 2 additional photographs
                    showing side views of the building. In addition, when applicable, provide a photograph of the foundation
                    showing a representative example of the flood openings or vents. All photographs must be in color and
                    measure at least 3" × 3". Digital photographs are acceptable.

      (b)   Floodproofing Certificate

            (i)     If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation requirements,
                    a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form FF-206-FY-21-122), with supporting data, an operational plan,
                    and an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It
                    shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
                    floodproofed design elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988.
                    Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer
                    or architect and certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the

                                                                                                                               13


                    operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
                    corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
                    required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain Development Permit. Failure to construct in
                    accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a Certificate of
                    Compliance/Occupancy.

            (ii)    A final Finished Construction Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form FF-206-FY-22-153), with
                    supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the
                    issuance of a Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
                    the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the reference level and
                    all attendant utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under
                    the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The Floodplain
                    Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance
                    plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to Certificate of
                    Occupancy. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to
                    deny a Floodplain Development Permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall
                    be cause to deny a Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.

      (c)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 and the elevation of the chassis is more
            than 36 inches in height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with the
            provisions of Article 5, Section B(3)(b).

      (d)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a
            professional engineer’s certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of
            the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing the
            location of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
            to issuance of a floodplain development permit.

      (e)   Certification Exemptions. The following structures, if located within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99, are exempt
            from the elevation/floodproofing certification requirements specified in items (a) and (b) of this subsection:

            (i)     Recreational Vehicles meeting requirements of Article 5, Section B(6)(a);

            (ii)    Temporary Structures meeting requirements of Article 5, Section B(7); and

            (iii)   Accessory Structures that are 150 square feet or less or $5,000 or less and meeting requirements of Article
                    5, Section B(8).

(4)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures.

      For applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including alterations, movement,
      enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial
      improvements, repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
      the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building Official, shall:

      (a)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an appraisal of the market value prepared by a
            qualified independent appraiser, of the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed work;
            in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure shall be the market value before the damage
            occurred and before any repairs are made;

      (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition,
            or the combined costs of improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or structure;

      (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial
            damage; and

      (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial
            damage and that compliance with the flood resistant construction requirements of the NC Building Code and this
            ordinance is required.

                                                                                                                               14


SECTION C.           DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.

The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following duties:

(1)    Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for all proposed development within Special Flood
       Hazard Areas to assure that the requirements of this ordinance have been satisfied.

(2)    Review all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to assure that all necessary local, state and federal
       permits have been received, including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33
       U.S.C. 1334.

(3)    Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management,
       State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
       submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).

(4)    Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying
       capacity is maintained.

(5)    Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless the certification and flood hazard reduction
       provisions of Article 5, Section F are met.

(6)    Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of the reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities
       of all new and substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of Article 4, Section B(3).

(7)    Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which all new and substantially improved structures and utilities
       have been floodproofed, in accordance with the provisions of Article 4, Section B(3).

(8)    Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of all public utilities in accordance with the provisions of Article 4,
       Section B(3).

(9)    When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain certifications from a registered professional engineer or
       architect in accordance with the provisions of Article 4, Section B(3) and Article 5, Section B(2).

(10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries of the Special Flood Hazard Areas, floodways, or
       non-encroachment areas (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
       conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a
       reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this article.

(11)   When BFE data has not been provided in accordance with the provisions of Article 3, Section B, obtain, review, and
       reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state,
       or other source, including data developed pursuant to Article 5, Section D(2)(c), in order to administer the provisions of
       this ordinance.

(12)   When BFE data is provided but no floodway or non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with the
       provisions of Article 3, Section B, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-encroachment area
       data available from a federal, state, or other source in order to administer the provisions of this ordinance.

(13)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of this ordinance and make these records available
       for public inspection, recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended.

(14)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a floodplain development permit progresses,
       the Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the work
       is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the terms of the permit. In exercising this power,
       the Floodplain Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
       jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.

(15)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or
       repaired in violation of this ordinance, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped.
       The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order

                                                                                                                               15


       shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under which the
       work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor.

(16)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain Administrator may revoke and require the return
       of the floodplain development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the revocation.
       Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved application, plans, and specifications; for
       refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of State or local laws; or for false statements or misrepresentations
       made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable State
       or local law may also be revoked.

(17)   Make periodic inspections throughout the Special Flood Hazard Areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The
       Floodplain Administrator and each member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon presentation of
       proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour
       for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.

(18)   Follow through with corrective procedures of Article 4, Section D.

(19)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.

(20)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, historical and effective FIS Report, historical and
       effective FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in accordance with the provisions of Article 3, Section
       B of this ordinance, including any revisions thereto including Letters of Map Change, issued by FEMA. Notify State
       and FEMA of mapping needs.

(21)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters
       of Map Revision (LOMRs).

(22)   Make substantial improvement and post event damage assessments and determinations:
       (b) Conduct damage assessments for damaged structures located within the SFHA
       (b) Complete substantial improvement/damage determinations in accordance with the provisions of Article 4, Section
           B(4).

(23) When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a Special
     Flood Hazard Area is above the BFE, advise the property owner of the option to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment
     (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.

(24)   In any lot or lots/areas that will be or have been removed from the special flood hazard area utilizing a Letter of Map
       Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F), the top of fill level must meet the community's freeboard elevation at that location.
       If the top of fill level is below the freeboard elevation, all new structures, additions to existing buildings or substantial
       improvement must meet the required community freeboard elevation.

SECTION D.           CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.

(1)    Stop Work Order: The community may issue a stop work order, which shall be served on the applicant or other
       responsible person. The stop work order shall remain in effect until the applicant or other responsible person has taken
       the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise remedied the violation or violations
       described therein, provided the stop work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable the applicant or other
       responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to remedy such violation or violations.

(2)    Notice of Violation. If the community determines that an owner, occupant, applicant or other responsible person has
       failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit, or the provisions of this ordinance, it shall issue a written
       notice of violation, by certified return receipt mail, to such applicant or other responsible person. Where the person is
       engaged in activity covered by this ordinance without having first secured a permit, the notice shall be served on the
       owner or the responsible person in charge of the activity being conducted on the site. The notice of violation shall
       contain:




                                                                                                                                 16


(1)   The name and address of the owner or the applicant or the responsible person;
(2)   The address or other description of the site upon which the violation is occurring;
        (a) A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
        (b) A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the action or inaction into compliance with the permit
              or this ordinance and the date for the completion of such remedial action;
        (c) A statement of the penalty or penalties that may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation
              is directed, and;
        (d) A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the community by filing a written notice of
              appeal within thirty days after the notice of violation (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an
              immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24-hour notice shall be sufficient).

(3)   Additional Enforcement Actions. If the remedial measures described in the Notice of Violation have not been
      completed by the date set forth for such completion in the Notice of Violation, any one or more of the following
      enforcement actions may be enacted against the person to whom the Notice of Violation was directed. Before taking
      any of the following actions or imposing any of the following penalties, the Town of Mayodan shall first notify the
      owner, applicant or other responsible person in writing of its intended action. The Town of Mayodan shall provide
      reasonable opportunity, of not less than ten days (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate
      danger to public health or public safety, 24-hour notice shall be sufficient) to remedy such violation. In the event the
      applicant or other responsible person fails to remedy such violation after such notice and remedial period, the Town of
      Mayodan may take or impose any one or more of the following enforcement actions or penalties:

         (e)         Termination of utility service and/or withhold or revoke Certificate of Occupancy: The community may
                     terminate utilities and/or refuse to issue and/or revoke a certificate of occupancy for the building or other
                     improvements and/or repairs conducted or being conducted on the site until the applicant or other responsible
                     person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise remedy the violation
                     or violations described therein.

        (b)         Suspension, revocation, or modifications of permit: The community may suspend, revoke, or modify the permit
                    authorizing the development project. A suspended, revoked, or modified permit may be reinstated after the
                    applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has
                    otherwise remedy the violations described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated (upon such
                    conditions as the community may deem necessary) to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take
                    the necessary remedial measures to cure such violations.

         (f)         Civil penalties: Violation of the provisions of this ordinance or failure to comply with any of its requirements,
                     including violation of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance or special
                     exceptions shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to North Carolina General Statute § 143-215.58.

               i)     Any person who violates this ordinance or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
                      thereof, be fined not more than $100. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
                      Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Town of Mayodan from taking such other lawful actions, pursuant
                      to North Carolina General Statute § 153A, 160A, and 160D, as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.

                      ii) Enforcement by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction may be
                          pursued if the offender fails to remedy the violation, pays assessed fines, and/or fails to file an appeal
                          within the prescribed period of time. In such case, the general court of justice shall have jurisdiction to
                          issue such orders as may be appropriate.

(4)   Administrative appeal; judicial review. Any person receiving a Notice of Violation may appeal the determination of
      the community, including but not limited to the issuance of a stop work order, the assessment of an administratively-
      imposed monetary penalty, the suspension, revocation, modification, or grant with condition of a permit by the
      community upon finding that the holder is in violation of permit conditions, or that the holder is in violation of any
      applicable ordinance or any of the community's rules and regulations, or the issuance of a notice of bond forfeiture.

         (a)          Any person receiving a Notice of Violation may appeal the determination of the Floodplain Administrator to
                     the Town of Mayodan. The Notice of Appeal must be in writing and be received by the Floodplain Administrator
                     and the clerk within thirty (30) days of the date of the Notice of Violation. In the absence of an appeal, the
                                                                                                                                   17


                determination of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final.
         (b)     All appeals shall be heard and decided by the community's designated Appeal Board, which shall be the Board
                of Adjustment, or their designees. The Appeal Board shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and shall
                have the power to affirm, modify, or reject the original penalty, including the right to increase or decrease the
                amount of any monetary penalty and the right to add or delete remedial actions required for correction of the
                violation and compliance with the community's flood damage prevention ordinance, and any other applicable
                local, state, or federal requirements. In the absence of a petition for review of a quasi-judicial decision, the
                decision of the Appeal Board shall be final.
         (g)    A petition for review of a quasi-judicial decision can be requested by any person with standing aggrieved by a
                decision or order of the community, after exhausting his/her administrative remedies. The petition shall be
                received by the clerk of superior court within 30 days of the date of the Town of Mayodan decision.

(3)   Section 1316 Declaration: Section 1316 of the National Flood Insurance Act authorizes FEMA to deny flood insurance
      to a property declared by the State, County, or Municipal government to be in violation of the local floodplain
      management ordinance. A Section 1316 declaration shall be used when all other legal means to remedy a violation have
      been exhausted and the structure remains noncompliant. The community must coordinate a request for Section 1316
      declaration    to    the     FEMA       Regional     Office     through     the     State     NFIP     Coordinator.

      Once invoked, the property’s flood insurance coverage will be terminated and no new or renewal policy can be issued;
      no flood insurance claim can be paid on any policy on the property, and disaster assistance will be denied. If a structure
      that has received a Section 1316 declaration is made compliant with the community’s floodplain management ordinance,
      then the Section 1316 declaration can be rescinded by FEMA and flood insurance eligibility restored.

SECTION E.            VARIANCE PROCEDURES.

(1)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the Town of Mayodan, hereinafter referred to as the “appeal board”, shall
      hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements of this ordinance.

(2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal such decision to the Court, as provided in Chapter
      7A of the North Carolina General Statutes.

(3)   Variances may be issued for:

      (a)      The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
               will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance is the minimum
               necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure;

      (b)      Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the definition as stated in Article 2 of this ordinance,
               provided provisions of Article 4, Section E(9)(b), (c), and (e) have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected
               by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety;
               or

      (c)      Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements of this Section.

(4)   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
      specified in other sections of this ordinance, and:

      (a)      The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others;

      (b)      The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;

      (c)      The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the
               individual owner;

      (d)      The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the community;

      (e)      The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined under Article 2 of this ordinance as a functionally
               dependent facility, where applicable;


                                                                                                                                  18


       (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;

       (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development;

       (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and floodplain management program for that area;

       (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles;

       (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of
             wave action, if applicable, expected at the site; and

       (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions including maintenance and repair
             of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.

(5)    A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be submitted with the application for a variance.

(6)    Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this ordinance, the appeal board may attach such
       conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this ordinance.

(7)    Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice specifying the difference between the BFE
       and the elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction below the BFE increases risks to life
       and property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the BFE may result in increased premium
       rates for flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be maintained with a record
       of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance.

(8)    The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal actions and report any variances to the FEMA and
       the State of North Carolina upon request.

(9)    Conditions for Variances:

       (a)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the structure in violation of other federal, state, or local
             laws, regulations, or ordinances.

       (b)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or non-encroachment area if the variance would
             result in any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge.

       (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the
             flood hazard, to afford relief.

       (d)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit approval.

       (e)   Variances shall only be issued upon:

             (i)    A showing of good and sufficient cause;

             (ii)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship; and

             (i)    A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats
                    to public safety, or extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the
                    public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.

(10)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage
       yards, and chemical storage facilities that are located in Special Flood Hazard Areas provided that all of the following
       conditions are met.

       (a)   The use serves a critical need in the community.

       (b)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the Special Flood Hazard Area.

       (c)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to at least the Regulatory Flood Protection
                                                                                                                                19


               Elevation.

      (d)      The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local laws.

         (e)    The Town of Mayodan has notified the Secretary of the North Carolina Department of Public Safety of its
                intention to grant a variance at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to granting the variance, in accordance with
                North Carolina General Statutes §143-215.54A(b).

ARTICLE 5.            PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.

SECTION A.            GENERAL STANDARDS.

In all Special Flood Hazard Areas, the following provisions are required:

(1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
      flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure.

(2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant
      to flood damage in accordance with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements.

(3) All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
    damages.

(4)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, air-conditioning, plumbing, duct systems, and other building utility systems,
      equipment, and service facilities must be located at or above the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE) and/or
      specially designed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components and installed to resist
      hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and stresses, including the effects of buoyancy, during the occurrence of flooding
      to the design flood elevation. Utility systems, equipment, and service facilities include, but are not limited to, HVAC
      equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen plumbing fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
      boxes, water heaters, fuel tanks, and electric outlets/switches.

      (a)      Replacements part of a substantial improvement must also meet the above provisions.

      (b)      Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a substantial improvement, may be installed at the original
               location provided the addition and/or improvements comply with the standards for new construction consistent
               with the code and requirements for the original structure.

(5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
      into the system.

(6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
      into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.

(7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or contamination from
      them during flooding.

(8)   Nothing in this ordinance shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or replacement of a building or structure existing on
      the effective date of this ordinance and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment area, or stream
      setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation in the floodway,
      non-encroachment area, or stream setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the
      other requirements of this ordinance.

(9)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
      facilities shall not be permitted, except by variance as specified in Article 4, Section E(10). A structure or tank for
      chemical or fuel storage incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
      treatment facility may be located in a Special Flood Hazard Area only if the structure or tank is either elevated or
      floodproofed to at least the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of
      Article 4, Section B(3).


                                                                                                                                20


(10)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.

(11)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
       electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.

(12)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
       to flood hazards.

(13)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have received all necessary permits from those
       governmental agencies for which approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the Federal Water
       Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.

(14)   When a structure is partially located in a Special Flood Hazard Area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for
       new construction and substantial improvements.

(15)   When a structure is located in a flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for the more
       restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest BFE shall apply.

(16)   Structural fill shall not be used unless design and construction of the structural fill accounts for the following:

       (a)    consolidation of the underlying soil under the weight of the fill and the structure,

       (b)    differential settlement due to variations in fill composition and characteristics, and

       (c)    slope stability and erosion control during conditions of the base flood.


SECTION B.           SPECIFIC STANDARDS.

In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where BFE data has been provided, as set forth in Article 3, Section B, or Article 5, Section
D, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of Article 5, Section A, are required:

(1)    Residential Construction. New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure (including
       manufactured homes) shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the Regulatory Flood
       Protection Elevation (RFPE), as defined in Article 2 of this ordinance.

(2)    Non-Residential Construction. New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other
       non-residential structure shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the Regulatory Flood
       Protection Elevation, as defined in Article 2 of this ordinance. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 may
       be floodproofed to the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE) in lieu of elevation provided that all areas of the
       structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation are
       watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural components having the
       capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing
       elevation shall be in accordance with Article 5, Section G(2). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
       that the floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
       Administrator as set forth in Article 4, Section B(3), along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
       plan.

(3)    Manufactured Homes.

       (a)    New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the reference level of the manufactured home
              is no lower than the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE), as defined in Article 2 of this ordinance.

       (b) Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse,
             and lateral movement, either by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most current
             edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured Homes adopted by the Commissioner of
             Insurance pursuant to NCGS 143-143.15. Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the
             chassis thirty-six (36) inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers
             or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above thirty-six (36) inches in height, an

                                                                                                                                21


             engineering certification is required.

       (c)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the requirements of Article 5, Section B(4).

      (d)    An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all residents of all new, substantially improved or
             substantially damaged manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This plan shall
             be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the local Emergency Management Coordinator.

(4)   Elevated Buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially improved structures, which is below the
      lowest floor:

       (a)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only be used for parking of vehicles, building access,
             or limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the enclosed area
             shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
             equipment (standard exterior door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion of such
             enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms, except to enclose storage areas;

       (b)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least to the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation;
             and

       (c)   Shall include flood openings to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry
             and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified by a professional engineer
             or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum design criteria:

             (i)     A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each enclosed area subject to flooding;

             (ii)    The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one (1) square inch for each square foot of enclosed
                     area subject to flooding;

             (iii)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed area must have flood openings to allow
                     floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;

             (iv)    The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot above the higher of the
                     interior or exterior adjacent grade;

             (v)     Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or devices, provided they permit
                     the automatic flow of floodwaters in both directions; and

             (vi)    Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore,
                     do not require flood openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is considered
                     an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.

(5)   Additions/Improvements.

       (a)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the addition and/or improvements in combination
             with any interior modifications to the existing structure are:

             (i)     Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements must be designed to minimize flood
                     damages and must not be any more non-conforming than the existing structure.

             (ii)    A substantial improvement, with modifications/rehabilitations/improvements to the existing structure or
                     the common wall is structurally modified more than installing a doorway, both the existing structure and
                     the addition must comply with the standards for new construction.

       (b)   Additions to pre-FIRM or post-FIRM structures that are a substantial improvement with no
             modifications/rehabilitations/improvements to the existing structure other than a standard door in the common
             wall, shall require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.

       (c)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the addition and/or improvements in combination

                                                                                                                                22


              with any interior modifications to the existing structure are:

              (i)    Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements only must comply with the standards
                     for new construction consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure.

              (ii)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the addition and/or improvements must comply
                     with the standards for new construction.

        (d)    Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a building or structure
               taking place during a one (1) year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the
               market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started must comply with the standards for
               new construction. For each building or structure, the one (1) year period begins on the date of the first
               improvement or repair of that building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance.

              (i)    Any project for improvement of a building required to correct existing health, sanitary or safety code
                     violations identified by the building official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living
                     conditions.

              (ii)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued
                     designation as a historic structure.

(6)   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:

        (e)    Placement of a Recreational Vehicle in the Regulatory Floodway is prohibited. This includes both temporary
               and permanent placement.

      (a)     Temporary Placement

              (i)    Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or

              (ii)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. (A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
                     wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no
                     permanently attached additions.)

      (b)     Permanent Placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the limitations of Temporary Placement shall meet
              all the requirements for new construction.

(7)   Temporary Non-Residential Structures. Prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for a temporary
      structure, the applicant must submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure(s) in the
      event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning notification. The following information shall be
      submitted in writing to the Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:

      (a)     A specified time period for which the temporary use will be permitted. Time specified may not exceed three (3)
              months, renewable up to one (1) year;

      (b)     The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;

      (c)     The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall
              of a hurricane or immediately upon flood warning notification);

      (d)     A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity responsible for physical removal of the
              structure; and

      (e)     Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside the Special Flood Hazard Area, to which the
              temporary structure will be moved.

(8)   Accessory Structures.

        (a)    When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages, etc.) with a footprint of no more than 600 square feet are

                                                                                                                                 23


                 placed within A, AO, AH, AE and A99 flood zones, wet floodproofing may be permitted when the following
                 criteria are met:

                 (i) Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation (including working, sleeping, living, cooking or
         restroom areas);
                 (ii) Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
                 (iii) Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage potential
                 (iv) Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum resistance
         to the flow of floodwaters;
                 (v) Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with the provisions of Article 5, Section A(1);
                 (vi) All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of Article 5, Section
         A(4); and
                 (vii) Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below
         Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation in conformance with the provisions of Article 5, Section B(4)(d).

       (b) All other accessory structures exceeding the size restrictions in Article 5, Section B(8)(a) above must comply with the
           elevation or floodproofing standards and certification requirements in accordance with Article 4, Section B(3) and
           Article 5, Section B(2).

         An accessory structure with a footprint of 150 square feet or less in A, AO, AH, AE and A99 zones satisfying the criteria
         outlined above in Article 5, Section B(8)(a) is not required to meet the elevation or floodproofing certification
         requirements of Article 4, Section B(3). All other accessory structures must comply with the elevation or floodproofing
         certification requirements in accordance with Article 4, Section B(3).

(9)      Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a Special Flood Hazard Area, the following criteria
         shall be met:

         (a)    Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
                lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
                including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty;

         (b)    Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be elevated to or above the
                Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
                lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the foundation
                requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;

         (c)    Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not meet the elevation requirements of Article 5,
                Section B (2) of this ordinance shall be permitted in flood hazard areas provided the tanks are designed,
                constructed, installed, and anchored to resist all flood-related and other loads, including the effects of buoyancy,
                during conditions of the design flood and without release of contents in the floodwaters or infiltration by
                floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall be designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist the potential
                buoyant and other flood forces acting on an empty tank during design flood conditions.

         (d)    Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:

                (i)    At or above the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation or fitted with covers designed to prevent the inflow
                       of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and

                (ii)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
                       effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the design flood.

(10)     Other Development.

         (a)    Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential to block the passage of floodwaters, such as
                stockade fences and wire mesh fences, shall meet the limitations of Article 5, Section F of this ordinance.

         (b)    Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways and NEAs. Retaining walls and sidewalks and
                driveways that involve the placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of Article 5, Section

                                                                                                                                       24


               F of this ordinance.

      (c)      Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAs. Roads and watercourse crossings, including
               roads, bridges, culverts, low-water crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
               of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of Article 5,
               Section F of this ordinance.

      (d)      Commercial storage facilities are not considered “limited storage” as noted in this ordinance, and shall be
               protected to the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation as required for commercial structures.

SECTION C.           STANDARDS FOR AREAS OUTSIDE THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA [X ZONES
                     (SHADED/UNSHADED)].
Areas designated as X Zones (Shaded or Unshaded) on the FIRM or in the FIS report established in Article 3, Section B, are
areas determined to be low to moderate risk flood zones but are not immune to inundation by flood waters. The following
provisions, in addition to the provisions of Article 5, Sections A and B, shall apply to all development within such areas:

       (1) Where 0.2-percent-annual-chance water surface elevations are provided, the reference level in Zone X (Shaded) shall
be elevated or floodproofed to at least the 0.2-percent-annual-chance water surface elevation or the Regulatory Flood Protection
Elevation, whichever is higher.

      (2) Where no flood hazard data is available or provided per Article 3, Section B:

        (a) the reference level shall be elevated or floodproofed, pursuant to Article 5, Section B, two (2) feet above the highest
      adjacent grade; or
         (b)          meet            the      requirements           of         Article         5,         Section          C(4).

(3) Where Advisory Flood Studies provide base flood elevations, the reference level shall be elevated or floodproofed,
    pursuant to Article 5, Section B, to at least the advisory BFE plus a freeboard of two (2) feet.

(4)   Where a Community Flood Hazard Area (CFHA) is established per Article 3, Section B, the reference level shall be
      elevated or floodproofed, pursuant to Article 5, Section B, to at least the CFHA flood elevation plus a freeboard of
      two (2) feet.

SECTION D.            STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD
                      ELEVATIONS.

Within the Special Flood Hazard Areas designated as Approximate Zone A and established in Article 3, Section B, where no
BFE data has been provided by FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of Article 5, Section A, shall
apply:

(1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements or new development shall be permitted
      within a distance of twenty (20) feet each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
      greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided
      demonstrating that such encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
      flood discharge.


(2)   The BFE used in determining the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation shall be determined based on the following
      criteria:

      (a)      When BFE data is available from other sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such
               areas shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this ordinance and shall be elevated or floodproofed in
               accordance with standards in Article 5, Sections A and B.

      (b)      When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a Federal, State, or other source, all new construction
               and substantial improvements within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the
               requirements of Article 5, Sections B and F.

      (c)      All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development proposals shall provide BFE data if

                                                                                                                                25


             development is greater than five (5) acres or has more than fifty (50) lots/manufactured home sites. Such BFE
             data shall be adopted by reference in accordance with Article 3, Section B and utilized in implementing this
             ordinance.

      (d)    When BFE data is not available from a Federal, State, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall
             be elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to or above the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation, as defined in
             Article 2. All other applicable provisions of Article 5, Section B shall also apply.


SECTION E.         STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
                   WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.

Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available from another source but neither floodway nor
non-encroachment areas are identified for a Special Flood Hazard Area on the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following
requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:

(1)   Standards of Article 5, Sections A and B; and

(2)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no encroachments, including fill, new construction,
      substantial improvements, or other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting technical data
      by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development,
      when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
      base flood more than one (1) foot at any point.

SECTION F.          FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.

Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in
Article 3, Section B. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas due to the velocity of
floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to
standards outlined in Article 5, Sections A and B, shall apply to all development within such areas:

(1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements and other developments shall be permitted
      unless:

      (a)    It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in the flood levels during the
             occurrence of the base flood discharge, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
             standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain
             development permit; or

      (b)    A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by FEMA for proposed encroachments
             resulting in increases in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. A Letter of Map
             Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six months of completion of the proposed encroachment.
      (c)    A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must be obtained within six months of completion of the proposed
             encroachment, permitted in accordance with Article 5, Section F(1)(a), if the encroachment results in changes to
             the floodway/non-encroachment area widths, and/or changes to the stream location.

(2)   If Article 5, Section F(1) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions
      of this ordinance.

(3)   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following provisions are met:

      (a)    The anchoring and the elevation standards of Article 5, Section B(3); and

      (b)    The encroachment standards of Article 5, Section F(1).

(4)   Placement of recreational vehicles in the regulatory floodway is prohibited.

SECTION G.          STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).

                                                                                                                              26


Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in Article 3, Section B, are areas designated as shallow flooding
areas. These areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one (1) to three (3) feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to Article 5,
Sections A and B, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the following requirements:

(1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
      (FIRM), in feet, plus a freeboard of two feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least 2 feet above the highest
      adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.

(2)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed to the same level as required in Article 5, Section
      G(1) so that the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that level shall be watertight with
      walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
      hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required in accordance with Article 4,
      Section B(3) and Article 5, Section B(2).

(3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from
      proposed structures.

SECTION H.           STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AH).

Located within the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in Article 3, Section B, are areas designated as shallow flooding
areas. These areas are subject to inundation by 1-percent-annual-chance shallow flooding (usually areas of ponding) where
average depths are one (1) to three (3) feet. Base Flood Elevations are derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown in
this zone. In addition to Article 5, Sections A and B, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the following
requirements:

(1)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from
      proposed structures.

ARTICLE 6.           LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.

SECTION A.          EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
                    PREVENTION ORDINANCE.

This ordinance in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
enacted June 11, 2007, as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to enforce without
interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of this ordinance shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions
of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance of the Town of Mayodan enacted on June 11, 2007, as amended, which are not
reenacted herein are repealed.

The date of the initial Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance for Rockingham County is September 14, 1987.

SECTION B.           EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.

Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size, or designated use of any development or any
part thereof for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator or his or her
authorized agents before the time of passage of this ordinance; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under
such outstanding permit within a period of six (6) months subsequent to the date of issuance of the outstanding permit,
construction or use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.

SECTION C.           SEVERABILITY.

If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of the Ordinance is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then said holding shall in no way effect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance.

SECTION D.           EFFECTIVE DATE.

This ordinance shall become effective June 8, 2026.

                                                                                                                                 27


SECTION E.          ADOPTION CERTIFICATION.

I hereby certify that this is a true and correct copy of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance as adopted by the Town Council
of the Town of Mayodan, North Carolina, on the 8th day of June 2026.

WITNESS my hand and the official seal of Sarah Hopper, Town Clerk, this the 8th day of June 2026.




______________________________________
Dwight Lake, Mayor


Attest:                                                                   Seal


__________________________________________
Sarah Hopper, Town Clerk




                                                                                                                          28


                   AGENDA ITEM COVER



Item for Agenda:         Regional Hazardous Mitigation Plan
Placement on Agenda:
Presenter:               Chief Tim Knight
 Description of Agenda
        Item or          North Carolina Emergency Management
    Other Pertinent      requesting jurisdictions to adopt the Regional
    Information for      Hazardous Mitigation Plan. Rockingham County
                         has adopted the plan. Each municipality in the
        Council:
                         County is listed on the attached Hazard Mitigation
                         Plans List. This plan is updated every five years.
                         There is a request for all municipalities to adopt
                         this plan. If Mayodan is under a “State of
                         Emergency”, this Regional Hazardous Mitigation
                         Plan is required to receive state and federal
                         funding.


SECTION 9
MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
This section includes the listing of the mitigation actions proposed by the participating jurisdictions
in the Northern Piedmont Region. It consists of the following two subsections:

       9.1 Overview
       9.2 Mitigation Action Plans


  44 CFR Requirement
  44 CFR Part 201.6(c)(3)(iii): The mitigation strategy shall include an action plan describing how the actions
  identified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section will be prioritized, implemented, and administered by the local
  jurisdiction.


9.1       OVERVIEW
As described in the previous section, the Mitigation Action Plan, or MAP, provides a functional plan
of action for each jurisdiction. It is designed to achieve the mitigation goals established in
Section 8: Mitigation Strategy and will be maintained on a regular basis according to the plan
maintenance procedures established in Section 10: Plan Maintenance.

Each proposed mitigation action has been identified as an effective measure (policy or project)
to reduce hazard risk for the Northern Piedmont Region. Each action is listed in the MAP in
conjunction with background information such as hazard(s) addressed, relative priority, and
estimated cost. Other information provided in the MAP includes potential funding sources to
implement the action should funding be required (not all proposed actions are contingent upon
funding). Most importantly, implementation mechanisms are provided for each action, including the
designation of a lead agency or department responsible for carrying the action out as well as a
timeframe for its completion. These implementation mechanisms ensure that the Northern
Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan remains a functional document that can be monitored for
progress over time. The proposed actions are not listed in priority order, though each has been
assigned a priority level of “high,” “moderate,” or “low” as described below and in Section 8 (page
8.2).

The Mitigation Action Plan is organized by mitigation strategy category (Prevention, Property
Protection, Natural Resource Protection, Structural Projects, Emergency Services, or Public
Education and Awareness). The following are the key elements described in the Mitigation Action
Plan:

       Hazard(s) Addressed—Hazard which the action addresses.
       Relative Priority—High, moderate, or low priority as assigned by the jurisdiction.
       Lead Agency/Department—Department responsible for undertaking the action.

Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                              9:1
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

        Potential Funding Sources—Local, State, or Federal sources of funds are noted here,
            where applicable.
        Implementation Schedule—Date by which the action the action should be completed.
         More information is provided when possible.
        Implementation Status (2025)—Indication of completion, progress, deferment, or no
         change since the previous plan. If the action is new, that will be noted here.


9.2         MITIGATION ACTION PLANS
The mitigation actions proposed by each of the participating jurisdictions are listed in 37
individual MAPs on the following pages. Table 9.1 shows the location of each jurisdiction’s MAP
within this section as well as the number of mitigation actions proposed by each jurisdiction.

                                          TABLE 9.1: INDIVIDUAL MAP LOCATIONS
                                       Location                   Page      Number of Mitigation Actions
                          Caswell County                          9:4                                          15
                                   Milton                         9:9                                          15
                                   Yanceyville                   9:14                                          14
                          Davie County                           9:19                                          13
                                   Bermuda Run                   9:25                                          13
                                   Cooleemee                     9:32                                          13
                                   Mocksville                    9:39                                          13
                          Forsyth County                         9:45                                           9
                                  Bethania                       9:50                                           8
                                  Clemmons                       9:54                                           7
                                  Kernersville                   9:58                                           8
                                  Lewisville                     9:62                                           8
                                  Rural Hall                     9:66                                           7
                                  Tobaccoville                   9:69                                           8
                                  Walkertown                     9:73                                           8
                                  Winston-Salem                  9:77                                           9
                          Rockingham County                      9:82                                           8
                                   Eden                           9:86                                          8
                                   Madison                        9:90                                          8
                                   Mayodan                        9:94                                          8
                                   Reidsville                     9:98                                          8
                                   Stoneville                    9:102                                          8
                                   Wentworth                     9:107                                          8
                          Stokes County                          9:111                                          7
                                   Danbury                       9:113                                          7
                                   King                          9:115                                          7
                                   Walnut Cove                   9:117                                          7
                          Surry County                           9:119                                         42



Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                9:2
DRAFT –March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

                                       Location                   Page      Number of Mitigation Actions
                                   Dobson                        9:128                                         40
                                   Elkin                         9:137                                         29
                                   Mount Airy                    9:142                                         42
                                   Pilot Mountain                9:150                                         40
                          Yadkin County                          9:159                                         12
                                   Boonville                     9:164                                         12
                                   East Bend                     9:168                                         12
                                   Jonesville                    9:172                                         12
                                   Yadkinville                   9:176                                         12




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                9:3
DRAFT –March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Caswell County Mitigation Action Plan
                                                              Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
   Action                                                     Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Although hazard mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives were reviewed
                                                                                               Caswell County
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       at the last Land Use Plan
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate        Planning and                Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                update, they will need to
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                be integrated again at the
                                                                                                                                                                next update as well.
              The Towns of Milton and Yanceyville                                                                                                               The Town of Yanceyville is
              will adopt Resolutions to participate                                            Town Manager                                                     now a participant in the
              in the NFIP and request that an Inter-                                            Milton, Town                                                    NFIP. The Town of Milton
     P-2                                                           All             High                                     Local                   2025
              Local Agreement be reached with the                                               Manager of                                                      will continue to evaluate
              County to provide Administrative                                                   Yanceyville                                                    the feasibility of joining
              Services over this program                                                                                                                        the NFIP.
              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Generally, there are
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               policies in place to
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  minimize new structures
              floodplain areas.                                                                                                                                 being located in the
                                                                                               Caswell County
                                                                                                                                                                floodplain. However,
     P-3                                                        Flooding        Moderate        Planning and                Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                additional regulations may
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                further reduce the number
                                                                                                                                                                of structures at flood risk,
                                                                                                                                                                so these will be considered
                                                                                                                                                                going forward.
              Update the Subdivision Ordinance by                                                                                                               Some mitigation objectives
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                               Caswell County                                                   have been integrated into
     P-4      mitigation objectives.                               All          Moderate        Planning and                Local                   2025        the Subdivision Ordinance,
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       but additional integration
                                                                                                                                                                would be beneficial.
              Update the Watershed Ordinance by                                                                                                                 Some mitigation objectives
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                               Caswell County                                                   have been integrated into
     P-5      mitigation objectives                                All          Moderate        Planning and                Local                   2025        the Watershed Ordinance,
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       but additional integration
                                                                                                                                                                would be beneficial.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:4
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                                 The county has
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                                  implemented inspections
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                   of flood damaged
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                       structures in the past
              inspected for flood related damage as                                                                                                                utilizing the method
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                                 outlined. This action will
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                   continue to be
              property. Plan for Damaged                                                                                                                           implemented going
              Structures:                                                                                                                                          forward as required when
              1. Overall damage assessment/data                                                                                                                    flooding damages
                    collection (visual inspection from                                                                                                             structures. When this
                    roadways).                                                                 Caswell County                                                      occurs, the policy will be
                                                                                                                                               2025, Review and
     P-7      2. Data compiled and geographical                 Flooding           High            Building                 Local                                  re-evaluated to determine
                                                                                                                                               update post-event
                    areas assigned to teams.                                                     Inspections                                                       if changes are necessary.
              3. Second detailed assessment by
                    area teams.
              4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                    etc. that have been exposed to
                    water will be opened for
                    evaluation.
              5. All construction that is repaired,
                    replaced, dried or sealed will be
                    inspected before covered.
              6. Structure inspected for
                    certificate of compliance.
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                     The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                        implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                               related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                               the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                    method outlined. This
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                  Caswell County                                                      action will continue to be
                                                                                                                                               2025, Review and
     P-8      necessary while collecting damage                    All             High            Building                 Local                                  implemented going
                                                                                                                                               update post-event
              assessment data; conduct inspections                                               Inspections                                                       forward as required when
              on first come, first serve basis; 4)                                                                                                                 utilities are damaged.
              work overtime to expedite utility                                                                                                                    When this occurs, the
              reconnections.                                                                                                                                       policy will be re-evaluated
                                                                                                                                                                   to determine if changes
                                                                                                                                                                   are necessary.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:5
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                              The county has created a
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                                                                                    zoning map, but it will
                                                                                               Caswell County
              staff and public use.                                                                                                                               need to be updated
     P-9                                                           All             High         Planning and                Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                  periodically in the future
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                  so this action will remain in
                                                                                                                                                                  place.
              Create layers of GIS data to maintain                                                                                                               GIS layers have been
              accurate and up to date information                                                                                                                 created for critical facilities
              about critical facilities, hazard event                                          Caswell County                                                     and to delineate
              history, Flood Plains, etc.                                                       Planning and                                                      floodplains. These layers
    P-10                                                           All             High                                     Local                   2025
                                                                                               Zoning, Caswell                                                    will need to be updated in
                                                                                                 County GIS                                                       the future as new
                                                                                                                                                                  information becomes
                                                                                                                                                                  available.
                                                                                       Property Protection
              Develop a formal process for                                                                                                                        The county has identified
              identifying potential hazard mitigation                                                                                                             potential hazard issues
              issues as a result of new development                                                                                                               that have resulted from
                                                                                               Caswell County                                                     new development but
    PP-1                                                           All          Moderate        Planning and                Local                   2025          there is not a formal
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                         process for identifying
                                                                                                                                                                  mitigation opportunities so
                                                                                                                                                                  this will need to be
                                                                                                                                                                  developed.
              Develop a Redevelopment Plan for                                                                                                                    The county has not
              Severe Repetitive Loss areas within                                              Caswell County                                                     developed a
    PP-2      the County and Towns.                                All             Low          Planning and                Local                   2025          Redevelopment Plan for
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                         SRL areas. This will need to
                                                                                                                                                                  be completed.
                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Ensure adequate evacuation warning                                                                                                                  The county always works
              in case of major hazard event.                                                                                                                      to ensure adequate
                                                                                               Caswell County
                                                                                                                                               2025, In advance   evacuation warning in the
     ES-1                                                          All             High          Emergency                  Local
                                                                                                                                                  of events       case of major hazard
                                                                                                  Services
                                                                                                                                                                  events and will continue to
                                                                                                                                                                  do so going forward.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:6
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                   Although many shelters
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                                                                                     have improved capacities,
                                                                                               Caswell County
                                                                                                                                                                improvements in the form
     ES-2                                                    Severe Winter         High          Emergency                  Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                of generators or other heat
                                                             Weather                              Services
                                                                                                                                                                sources are still necessary
                                                                                                                                                                and will be pursued.
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                  The county has placed
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                 education materials
              branches of the Caswell County public                                                                                                             concerning hazards in all
              library system.                                                                                                                                   branches of the county
                                                                                               Caswell County                                                   library, but this action will
    PEA-1                                                          All             High         Planning and                Local                   2025        need to be reviewed and
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       revised as additional
                                                                                                                                                                information is likely
                                                                                                                                                                available and other
                                                                                                                                                                outreach strategies will be
                                                                                                                                                                explored.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:7
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Ensure that the Planning Director is                                                                                                                 The Caswell County
              informed of erosion and                                                                                                                              Planning Director has
              sedimentation control methods and                                                                                                                    received training on
              pushes this information out to the                                                                                                                   erosion and sedimentation
              public.                                                                                                                                              control methods and on
                                                                                                                                                                   floodplain surveying
                                                                                                                                                                   certification. On an annual
                                                                                                                                                                   basis, this person makes
                                                                                               Caswell County
                                                                                                                                                                   numerous site visits to
                                                                                                  Manger,
                                                                                                                                               2025, Annual site   assist property owners and
    PEA-2                                                        Flooding          High        Caswell County               Local
                                                                                                                                                     visits        developers with problems
                                                                                                Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                   and potential problems
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                   associated with drainage,
                                                                                                                                                                   erosion, and flooding. Site
                                                                                                                                                                   visits are made at the
                                                                                                                                                                   request of the property
                                                                                                                                                                   owner or developer and
                                                                                                                                                                   are usually handled
                                                                                                                                                                   through the Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                   Zoning Department.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:8
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Milton Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Although hazard mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives were reviewed
                                                                                               Caswell County
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       at the last Land Use Plan
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate        Planning and                Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                update, they will need to
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                be integrated again at the
                                                                                                                                                                next update as well.
              The Towns of Milton and Yanceyville                                                                                                               The Town of Milton will
              will adopt Resolutions to participate                                            Town Manager                                                     evaluate joining the NFIP.
              in the NFIP and request that an Inter-                                            Milton, Town
     P-2                                                        Flooding           High                                     Local                   2025
              Local Agreement be reached with the                                               Manager of
              County to provide Administrative                                                   Yanceyville
              Services over this program
              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Generally, there are
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               policies in place to
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  minimize new structures
              floodplain areas.                                                                                                                                 being located in the
                                                                                               Caswell County
                                                                                                                                                                floodplain. However,
     P-3                                                        Flooding        Moderate        Planning and                Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                additional regulations may
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                further reduce the number
                                                                                                                                                                of structures at flood risk,
                                                                                                                                                                so these will be considered
                                                                                                                                                                going forward.
              Update the Subdivision Ordinance by                                                                                                               Some mitigation objectives
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                               Caswell County                                                   have been integrated into
     P-4      mitigation objectives.                               All          Moderate        Planning and                Local                   2025        the Subdivision Ordinance,
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       but additional integration
                                                                                                                                                                would be beneficial.
              Update the Watershed Ordinance by                                                                                                                 Some mitigation objectives
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                               Caswell County                                                   have been integrated into
     P-5      mitigation objectives                                All          Moderate        Planning and                Local                   2025        the Watershed Ordinance,
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       but additional integration
                                                                                                                                                                would be beneficial.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:9
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                                 The county has
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                                  implemented inspections
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                   of flood damaged
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                       structures in the past
              inspected for flood related damage as                                                                                                                utilizing the method
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                                 outlined. This action will
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                   continue to be
              property. Plan for Damaged                                                                                                                           implemented going
              Structures:                                                                                                                                          forward as required when
              1. Overall damage assessment/data                                                                                                                    flooding damages
                    collection (visual inspection from                                                                                                             structures. When this
                    roadways).                                                                 Caswell County                                                      occurs, the policy will be
                                                                                                                                               2025, Review and
     P-7      2. Data compiled and geographical                 Flooding           High            Building                 Local                                  re-evaluated to determine
                                                                                                                                               update post-event
                    areas assigned to teams.                                                     Inspections                                                       if changes are necessary.
              3. Second detailed assessment by
                    area teams.
              4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                    etc. that have been exposed to
                    water will be opened for
                    evaluation.
              5. All construction that is repaired,
                    replaced, dried or sealed will be
                    inspected before covered.
              6. Structure inspected for
                    certificate of compliance.
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                     The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                        implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                               related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                               the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                    method outlined. This
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                  Caswell County                                                      action will continue to be
                                                                                                                                               2025, Review and
     P-8      necessary while collecting damage                    All             High            Building                 Local                                  implemented going
                                                                                                                                               update post-event
              assessment data; conduct inspections                                               Inspections                                                       forward as required when
              on first come, first serve basis; 4)                                                                                                                 utilities are damaged.
              work overtime to expedite utility                                                                                                                    When this occurs, the
              reconnections.                                                                                                                                       policy will be re-evaluated
                                                                                                                                                                   to determine if changes
                                                                                                                                                                   are necessary.


Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:10
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                              The county has created a
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                                                                                    zoning map, but it will
                                                                                               Caswell County
              staff and public use.                                                                                                                               need to be updated
     P-9                                                           All             High         Planning and                Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                  periodically in the future
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                  so this action will remain in
                                                                                                                                                                  place.
              Create layers of GIS data to maintain                                                                                                               GIS layers have been
              accurate and up to date information                                                                                                                 created for critical facilities
              about critical facilities, hazard event                                          Caswell County                                                     and to delineate
              history, Flood Plains, etc.                                                       Planning and                                                      floodplains. These layers
    P-10                                                           All             High                                     Local                   2025
                                                                                               Zoning, Caswell                                                    will need to be updated in
                                                                                                 County GIS                                                       the future as new
                                                                                                                                                                  information becomes
                                                                                                                                                                  available.
                                                                                       Property Protection
              Develop a formal process for                                                                                                                        The county has identified
              identifying potential hazard mitigation                                                                                                             potential hazard issues
              issues as a result of new development                                                                                                               that have resulted from
                                                                                               Caswell County                                                     new development but
    PP-1                                                           All          Moderate        Planning and                Local                   2025          there is not a formal
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                         process for identifying
                                                                                                                                                                  mitigation opportunities so
                                                                                                                                                                  this will need to be
                                                                                                                                                                  developed.
              Develop a Redevelopment Plan for                                                                                                                    The county has not
              Severe Repetitive Loss areas within                                              Caswell County                                                     developed a
    PP-2      the County and Towns.                                All             Low          Planning and                Local                   2025          Redevelopment Plan for
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                         SRL areas. This will need to
                                                                                                                                                                  be completed.
                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Ensure adequate evacuation warning                                                                                                                  The county always works
              in case of major hazard event.                                                                                                                      to ensure adequate
                                                                                               Caswell County
                                                                                                                                               2025, In advance   evacuation warning in the
     ES-1                                                          All             High          Emergency                  Local
                                                                                                                                                  of events       case of major hazard
                                                                                                  Services
                                                                                                                                                                  events and will continue to
                                                                                                                                                                  do so going forward.



Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:11
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                   Although many shelters
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                                                                                     have improved capacities,
                                                                                               Caswell County
                                                                                                                                                                improvements in the form
     ES-2                                                    Severe Winter         High          Emergency                  Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                of generators or other heat
                                                             Weather                              Services
                                                                                                                                                                sources are still necessary
                                                                                                                                                                and will be pursued.
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                  The county has placed
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                 education materials
              branches of the Caswell County public                                                                                                             concerning hazards in all
              library system.                                                                                                                                   branches of the county
                                                                                               Caswell County                                                   library, but this action will
    PEA-1                                                          All             High         Planning and                Local                   2025        need to be reviewed and
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       revised as additional
                                                                                                                                                                information is likely
                                                                                                                                                                available and other
                                                                                                                                                                outreach strategies will be
                                                                                                                                                                explored.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:12
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              The Caswell County Planning Director                                                                                                                 The Caswell County
              has received training on erosion and                                                                                                                 Planning Director has
              sedimentation control methods and                                                                                                                    received training on
              on floodplain surveying certification.                                                                                                               erosion and sedimentation
              On an annual basis, this person makes                                                                                                                control methods and on
              numerous site visits to assist property                                                                                                              floodplain surveying
              owners and developers with problems                                                                                                                  certification. On an annual
              and potential problems associated                                                                                                                    basis, this person makes
                                                                                               Caswell County
              with drainage, erosion, and flooding.                                                                                                                numerous site visits to
                                                                                                  Manger,
              Site visits are made at the request of                                                                                           2025, Annual site   assist property owners and
    PEA-2                                                        Flooding          High        Caswell County               Local
              the property owner or developer and                                                                                                    visits        developers with problems
                                                                                                Planning and
              are usually handled through the                                                                                                                      and potential problems
                                                                                                   Zoning
              Planning and Zoning Department.                                                                                                                      associated with drainage,
                                                                                                                                                                   erosion, and flooding. Site
                                                                                                                                                                   visits are made at the
                                                                                                                                                                   request of the property
                                                                                                                                                                   owner or developer and
                                                                                                                                                                   are usually handled
                                                                                                                                                                   through the Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                   Zoning Department.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:13
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Yanceyville Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Although hazard mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives were reviewed
                                                                                               Caswell County
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       at the last Land Use Plan
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate        Planning and                Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                update, they will need to
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                be integrated again at the
                                                                                                                                                                next update as well.
              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Generally, there are
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               policies in place to
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  minimize new structures
              floodplain areas.                                                                                                                                 being located in the
                                                                                               Caswell County
                                                                                                                                                                floodplain. However,
     P-3                                                        Flooding        Moderate        Planning and                Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                additional regulations may
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                further reduce the number
                                                                                                                                                                of structures at flood risk,
                                                                                                                                                                so these will be considered
                                                                                                                                                                going forward.
              Update the Subdivision Ordinance by                                                                                                               Some mitigation objectives
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                               Caswell County                                                   have been integrated into
     P-4      mitigation objectives.                               All          Moderate        Planning and                Local                   2025        the Subdivision Ordinance,
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       but additional integration
                                                                                                                                                                would be beneficial.
              Update the Watershed Ordinance by                                                                                                                 Some mitigation objectives
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                               Caswell County                                                   have been integrated into
     P-5      mitigation objectives                                All          Moderate        Planning and                Local                   2025        the Watershed Ordinance,
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       but additional integration
                                                                                                                                                                would be beneficial.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:14
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                                 The county has
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                                  implemented inspections
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                   of flood damaged
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                       structures in the past
              inspected for flood related damage as                                                                                                                utilizing the method
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                                 outlined. This action will
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                   continue to be
              property. Plan for Damaged                                                                                                                           implemented going
              Structures:                                                                                                                                          forward as required when
              1. Overall damage assessment/data                                                                                                                    flooding damages
                   collection (visual inspection from                                                                                                              structures. When this
                   roadways).                                                                  Caswell County                                                      occurs, the policy will be
                                                                                                                                               2025, Review and
     P-7      2. Data compiled and geographical                 Flooding           High            Building                 Local                                  re-evaluated to determine
                                                                                                                                               update post-event
                   areas assigned to teams.                                                      Inspections                                                       if changes are necessary.
              3. Second detailed assessment by
                   area teams.
              4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                   etc. that have been exposed to
                   water will be opened for
                   evaluation.
              5. All construction that is repaired,
                   replaced, dried or sealed will be
                   inspected before covered.
              6. Structure inspected for
                   certificate of compliance.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:15
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation           Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule               Status (2025)
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                     The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                        implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                               related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                               the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                    method outlined. This
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                  Caswell County                                                      action will continue to be
                                                                                                                                               2025, Review and
     P-8      necessary while collecting damage                    All             High            Building                 Local                                  implemented going
                                                                                                                                               update post-event
              assessment data; conduct inspections                                               Inspections                                                       forward as required when
              on first come, first serve basis; 4)                                                                                                                 utilities are damaged.
              work overtime to expedite utility                                                                                                                    When this occurs, the
              reconnections.                                                                                                                                       policy will be re-evaluated
                                                                                                                                                                   to determine if changes
                                                                                                                                                                   are necessary.
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                               The county has created a
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                                                                                     zoning map, but it will
                                                                                               Caswell County
              staff and public use.                                                                                                                                need to be updated
     P-9                                                           All             High         Planning and                Local                    2025
                                                                                                                                                                   periodically in the future
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                   so this action will remain in
                                                                                                                                                                   place.
              Create layers of GIS data to maintain                                                                                                                GIS layers have been
              accurate and up to date information                                                                                                                  created for critical facilities
              about critical facilities, hazard event                                          Caswell County                                                      and to delineate
              history, Flood Plains, etc.                                                       Planning and                                                       floodplains. These layers
    P-10                                                           All             High                                     Local                    2025
                                                                                               Zoning, Caswell                                                     will need to be updated in
                                                                                                 County GIS                                                        the future as new
                                                                                                                                                                   information becomes
                                                                                                                                                                   available.
                                                                                       Property Protection
              Develop a formal process for                                                                                                                         The county has identified
              identifying potential hazard mitigation                                                                                                              potential hazard issues
              issues as a result of new development                                                                                                                that have resulted from
                                                                                               Caswell County                                                      new development but
    PP-1                                                           All          Moderate        Planning and                Local                    2025          there is not a formal
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                          process for identifying
                                                                                                                                                                   mitigation opportunities so
                                                                                                                                                                   this will need to be
                                                                                                                                                                   developed.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                     9:16
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation         Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule             Status (2025)
              Develop a Redevelopment Plan for                                                                                                                    The county has not
              Severe Repetitive Loss areas within                                              Caswell County                                                     developed a
    PP-2      the County and Towns.                                All             Low          Planning and                Local                   2025          Redevelopment Plan for
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                         SRL areas. This will need to
                                                                                                                                                                  be completed.
                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Ensure adequate evacuation warning                                                                                                                  The county always works
              in case of major hazard event.                                                                                                                      to ensure adequate
                                                                                               Caswell County
                                                                                                                                               2025, In advance   evacuation warning in the
     ES-1                                                          All             High          Emergency                  Local
                                                                                                                                                  of events       case of major hazard
                                                                                                  Services
                                                                                                                                                                  events and will continue to
                                                                                                                                                                  do so going forward.
              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                     Although many shelters
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                                                                                       have improved capacities,
                                                                                               Caswell County
                                                                                                                                                                  improvements in the form
     ES-2                                                    Severe Winter         High          Emergency                  Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                  of generators or other heat
                                                             Weather                              Services
                                                                                                                                                                  sources are still necessary
                                                                                                                                                                  and will be pursued.
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                    The county has placed
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                   education materials
              branches of the Caswell County public                                                                                                               concerning hazards in all
              library system.                                                                                                                                     branches of the county
                                                                                               Caswell County                                                     library, but this action will
    PEA-1                                                          All             High         Planning and                Local                   2025          need to be reviewed and
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                         revised as additional
                                                                                                                                                                  information is likely
                                                                                                                                                                  available and other
                                                                                                                                                                  outreach strategies will be
                                                                                                                                                                  explored.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                   9:17
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              The Caswell County Planning Director                                                                                                                 The Caswell County
              has received training on erosion and                                                                                                                 Planning Director has
              sedimentation control methods and                                                                                                                    received training on
              on floodplain surveying certification.                                                                                                               erosion and sedimentation
              On an annual basis, this person makes                                                                                                                control methods and on
              numerous site visits to assist property                                                                                                              floodplain surveying
              owners and developers with problems                                                                                                                  certification. On an annual
              and potential problems associated                                                                                                                    basis, this person makes
                                                                                               Caswell County
              with drainage, erosion, and flooding.                                                                                                                numerous site visits to
                                                                                                  Manger,
              Site visits are made at the request of                                                                                           2025, Annual site   assist property owners and
    PEA-2                                                        Flooding          High        Caswell County               Local
              the property owner or developer and                                                                                                    visits        developers with problems
                                                                                                Planning and
              are usually handled through the                                                                                                                      and potential problems
                                                                                                   Zoning
              Planning and Zoning Department.                                                                                                                      associated with drainage,
                                                                                                                                                                   erosion, and flooding. Site
                                                                                                                                                                   visits are made at the
                                                                                                                                                                   request of the property
                                                                                                                                                                   owner or developer and
                                                                                                                                                                   are usually handled
                                                                                                                                                                   through the Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                   Zoning Department.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:18
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Davie County Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Davie County updates the
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     land use plan as needed
                                                                                                Davie County
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       and includes hazard
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate        Planning and                Local                Completed
                                                                                                                                                                mitigation strategies as a
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                routine part of this
                                                                                                                                                                process. This action will be
                                                                                                                                                                removed from the plan
                                                                                                                                                                during the 2025 update.
              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Through the planning and
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               zoning process Davie
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  County ensures that there
              floodplain areas.                                                                                                                                 is a low impact from
                                                                                                Davie County
                                                                                                                                                                structures that may be in
     P-2                                                        Flooding        Moderate        Planning and                Local                Completed
                                                                                                                                                                the 100 year flood plain by
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                denying or restricting
                                                                                                                                                                structures in these areas.
                                                                                                                                                                This action will be removed
                                                                                                                                                                from the plan during the
                                                                                                                                                                2025 update.
              Update the Subdivision Ordinance by                                                                                                               Hazard mitigation is a high
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                                Davie County                                                    priority and strategies have
     P-4      mitigation objectives.                               All          Moderate        Planning and                Local                Completed      been integrated and
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       enforced through local
                                                                                                                                                                ordinances. This action will
                                                                                                                                                                be removed from the plan
                                                                                                                                                                during the 2025 update.
              Review and revise the Planning                                                                                                                    Davie County has
              Ordinance to allow for clustering of                                                                                                              continued to encourage
              residential lots.                                                                                                                                 cluster development. This
                                                                                                Davie County
                                                                                                                                                                action will be removed
     P-5                                                        Flooding        Moderate        Planning and                Local                Completed
                                                                                                                                                                from the plan during the
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                2025 update.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:19
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation         Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule             Status (2025)
              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                    Davie County Floodplain
              floodplain maps.                                                                                                                                    maps are updated
                                                                                                Davie County                                                      regularly by the
     P-6                                                        Flooding           High         Planning and           Federal, State             Completed       State/FEMA. This action
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                         will be removed from the
                                                                                                                                                                  plan during the 2025
                                                                                                                                                                  update.
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                                This is the process that
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                                 Davie County uses to
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                  inspect flood damaged
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                      structures. This is not a
              inspected for flood related damage as                                                                                                               mitigation action and will
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                                be removed during the
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                  2025 plan update.
              property.
              Plan for Damaged Structures:
               1. Overall damage assessment/data
                   collection (visual inspection from
                   roadways).                                                                   Davie County
                                                                                                                                                 Action to be
     P-7      2. Data compiled and geographical                 Flooding           High            Building                 Local
                                                                                                                                                deleted at next
                   areas assigned to teams.                                                      Inspections
                                                                                                                                                    update.
              3. Second detailed assessment by
                   area teams.
              4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                   etc. that have been exposed to
                   water will be opened for
                   evaluation.
               5. All construction that is repaired,
                   replaced, dried or sealed will be
                   inspected before covered.
              6. Structure inspected for certificate
                   of compliance.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:20
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                     The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                        implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                               related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                               the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                    method outlined. This
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                   Davie County                                                       action will continue to be
                                                                                                                                               2025, Review and
     P-8      necessary while collecting damage                    All             High            Building                 Local                                  implemented going
                                                                                                                                               update post-event
              assessment data; conduct inspections                                               Inspections                                                       forward as required when
              on first come, first serve basis; 4)                                                                                                                 utilities are damaged.
              work overtime to expedite utility                                                                                                                    When this occurs, the
              reconnections.                                                                                                                                       policy will be re-evaluated
                                                                                                                                                                   to determine if changes
                                                                                                                                                                   are necessary. As of 2019,
                                                                                                                                                                   the previous actions are
                                                                                                                                                                   still utilized. Additional
                                                                                                                                                                   notifications are made
                                                                                                                                                                   through the Everbridge
                                                                                                                                                                   program and on the
                                                                                                                                                                   County webpage.
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                               The county has created a
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                                                                                     zoning map, but it will
                                                                                                Davie County
              staff and public use.                                                                                                                                need to be updated
     P-9                                                           All             High         Planning and                Local                    2025
                                                                                                                                                                   periodically in the future
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                   so this action will remain in
                                                                                                                                                                   place. As of 2019, the
                                                                                                                                                                   digital mapping is up to
                                                                                                                                                                   date and available to the
                                                                                                                                                                   public.
                                                                                       Property Protection




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:21
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             The county currently has a
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                               list of all repetitive loss
                                                                                                                                                                   properties, but that list will
                                                                                                Davie County                                                       need to be updated to
                                                                                                                                                  2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                        Flooding        Moderate        Planning and                Local                                  ensure any repetitive loss
                                                                                                                                               review and update
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                          properties are on the radar
                                                                                                                                                                   of local officials and that
                                                                                                                                                                   mitigation strategies can
                                                                                                                                                                   be devised. As of 2019, the
                                                                                                                                                                   current list of repetitive
                                                                                                                                                                   loss properties is updated
                                                                                                                                                                   as needed.
                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Ensure adequate evacuation warning                                                                                                                   The county always works
              in case of major hazard event.                                                                                                                       to ensure adequate
                                                                                                Davie County
                                                                                                                                               2025, In advance    evacuation warning in the
     ES-1                                                          All             High          Emergency                  Local
                                                                                                                                                  of events        case of major hazard
                                                                                                  Services
                                                                                                                                                                   events and will continue to
                                                                                                                                                                   do so going forward. As of
                                                                                                                                                                   2019, the County utilizes
                                                                                                                                                                   Everbridge, local media
                                                                                                                                                                   resources and the County
                                                                                                                                                                   website to provide this
                                                                                                                                                                   information.
              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                      Although many shelters
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                                                                                        have improved capacities,
                                                                                                Davie County
                                                                                                                                                                   improvements in the form
     ES-2                                                    Severe Winter         High          Emergency                  Local                    2025
                                                                                                                                                                   of generators or other heat
                                                             Weather                              Services
                                                                                                                                                                   sources are still necessary
                                                                                                                                                                   and will be pursued.
                                                                                                                                                                   Additional generators and
                                                                                                                                                                   transfer switches have
                                                                                                                                                                   been added to facilities
                                                                                                                                                                   since 2014.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:22
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)         Relative    Lead Agency/      Potential                        Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed         Priority     Department    Funding Sources                        Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                  The county has placed
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                 education materials
              branches of the Davie County public                                                                                                               concerning hazards in all
              library system.                                                                                                                                   branches of the county
                                                                                                Davie County                                                    library, but this action will
    PEA-1                                                          All             High         Planning and                Local                   2025        need to be reviewed and
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       revised as additional
                                                                                                                                                                information is likely
                                                                                                                                                                available and other
                                                                                                                                                                outreach strategies will be
                                                                                                                                                                explored. As of 2019,
                                                                                                                                                                Davie County continues to
                                                                                                                                                                follow this process.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:23
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule            Status (2025)
              Ensure that the Development Services                                                                                                               The Davie County
              Director is informed of erosion and                                                                                                                Development Services
              sedimentation control methods and                                                                                                                  Director has received
              pushes this information out to the                                                                                                                 training on erosion and
              public.                                                                                                                                            sedimentation control
                                                                                                                                                                 methods and on floodplain
                                                                                                                                                                 surveying certification. On
                                                                                                                                                                 an annual basis, this
                                                                                                 Davie County
                                                                                                                                                                 person makes numerous
                                                                                                Development
                                                                                                                                                                 site visits to assist property
                                                                                                   Services
    PEA-2                                                        Flooding          High                                     Local               2025, Annually   owners and developers
                                                                                                Director, Davie
                                                                                                                                                                 with problems and
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                                                                                 potential problems
                                                                                                  and Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                 associated with drainage,
                                                                                                                                                                 erosion, and flooding. Site
                                                                                                                                                                 visits are made at the
                                                                                                                                                                 request of the property
                                                                                                                                                                 owner or developer and
                                                                                                                                                                 are usually handled
                                                                                                                                                                 through the Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                 Zoning Department. As of
                                                                                                                                                                 2019, Davie County
                                                                                                                                                                 continues to follow this
                                                                                                                                                                 process.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:24
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Bermuda Run Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Davie County updates the
              and include hazard mitigation                                                     Bermuda Run,                                                    land use plan as needed
              objectives.                                                                       Davie County                                                    and includes hazard
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate                                    Local                Completed
                                                                                                Planning and                                                    mitigation strategies as a
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       routine part of this
                                                                                                                                                                process. This action will be
                                                                                                                                                                removed from the plan
                                                                                                                                                                during the 2025 update.
              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Through the planning and
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               zoning process, Davie
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  County ensures that there
              floodplain areas.                                                                 Bermuda Run,                                                    is a low impact from
                                                                                                Davie County                                                    structures that may be in
     P-2                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                   2025
                                                                                                Planning and                                                    the 100-year floodplain by
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       denying or restricting
                                                                                                                                                                structures in these areas.


              Update the Subdivision Ordinance by                                                                                                               Hazard mitigation is a high
                                                                                                Bermuda Run,
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                                                                                                priority and strategies have
                                                                                                Davie County
     P-4      mitigation objectives.                               All          Moderate                                    Local                   2025        been integrated and
                                                                                                Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                enforced through local
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                ordinances.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:25
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Review and revise the Planning                                                                                                                    Although clustering of
              Ordinance to allow for clustering of                                                                                                              development is allowed
              residential lots.                                                                 Bermuda Run,                                                    through the watershed
                                                                                                Davie County                                                    protection chapter of the
     P-5                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                   2025
                                                                                                Planning and                                                    land usage article, the
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       county will work to further
                                                                                                                                                                encourage cluster
                                                                                                                                                                development in the future.
                                                                                                                                                                As of 2019 Davie County
                                                                                                                                                                has continued to
                                                                                                                                                                encourage cluster
                                                                                                                                                                development.
              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                  Davie County Floodplain
              floodplain maps.                                                                                                                                  maps are updated regularly
                                                                                                Bermuda Run,
                                                                                                                                                                by the State/FEMA. This
                                                                                                Davie County
     P-6                                                        Flooding           High                                Federal, State               2025        action will be removed from
                                                                                                Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                the plan during the 2025
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                update.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:26
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation         Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule             Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                                This is the process that
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                                 Davie County uses to
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                  inspect flood damaged
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                      structures. This is not a
              inspected for flood related damage as                                                                                                               mitigation action and will
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                                be removed during the
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                  2025 plan update.
              property. Plan for Damaged
              Structures:
               1. Overall damage assessment/data
                   collection (visual inspection from
                                                                                                Bermuda Run,
                   roadways).
                                                                                                Davie County                                     Action to be
     P-7       2. Data compiled and geographical                Flooding           High                                     Local
                                                                                                   Building                                     deleted during
                   areas assigned to teams.
                                                                                                 Inspections                                   the 2025 update.
               3. Second detailed assessment by
                   area teams.
               4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                   etc. that have been exposed to
                   water will be opened for
                   evaluation.
               5. All construction that is repaired,
                   replaced, dried or sealed will be
                   inspected before covered.
               6. Structure inspected for certificate
                   of compliance.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:27
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                     The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                        implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                               related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                               the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                    method outlined. This
                                                                                                Bermuda Run,
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                                                                                      action will continue to be
                                                                                                Davie County                                   2025, Review and
     P-8      necessary while collecting damage                    All             High                                     Local                                  implemented going
                                                                                                   Building                                    update post-event
              assessment data; conduct inspections                                                                                                                 forward as required when
                                                                                                 Inspections
              on first come, first serve basis; 4)                                                                                                                 utilities are damaged.
              work overtime to expedite utility                                                                                                                    When this occurs, the
              reconnections.                                                                                                                                       policy will be re-evaluated
                                                                                                                                                                   to determine if changes
                                                                                                                                                                   are necessary. As of 2019
                                                                                                                                                                   the previous actions are
                                                                                                                                                                   still utilized. Additional
                                                                                                                                                                   notifications are made
                                                                                                                                                                   through the Everbridge
                                                                                                                                                                   program and on the
                                                                                                                                                                   County webpage.
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                               The county has created a
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                  Bermuda Run,                                                       zoning map, but it will
              staff and public use.                                                             Davie County                                                       need to be updated
     P-9                                                           All             High                                     Local                    2025
                                                                                                Planning and                                                       periodically in the future
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                          so this action will remain in
                                                                                                                                                                   place. As of 2019, the
                                                                                                                                                                   digital mapping is up to
                                                                                                                                                                   date and available to the
                                                                                                                                                                   public.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:28
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
                                                                                      Property Protection
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative   Lead Agency/               Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority    Department             Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             The county currently has a
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                               list of all repetitive loss
                                                                                                                                                                   properties, but that list will
                                                                                                Bermuda Run,
                                                                                                                                                                   need to be updated to
                                                                                                Davie County                                      2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                                  ensure any repetitive loss
                                                                                                Planning and                                   review and update
                                                                                                                                                                   properties are on the radar
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                   of local officials and that
                                                                                                                                                                   mitigation strategies can
                                                                                                                                                                   be devised. As of 2019 the
                                                                                                                                                                   current list of repetitive
                                                                                                                                                                   loss properties is updated
                                                                                                                                                                   as needed.
                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Ensure adequate evacuation warning                                                                                                                   The county always works
              in case of major hazard event.                                                    Bermuda Run,                                                       to ensure adequate
                                                                                                Davie County                                   2025, In advance    evacuation warning in the
     ES-1                                                          All             High                                     Local
                                                                                                 Emergency                                        of events        case of major hazard
                                                                                                   Services                                                        events and will continue to
                                                                                                                                                                   do so going forward. As of
                                                                                                                                                                   2019, the County uses
                                                                                                                                                                   Everbridge, local media
                                                                                                                                                                   resources and the County
                                                                                                                                                                   website to provide this
                                                                                                                                                                   information.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:29
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                   Although many shelters
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                     Bermuda Run,                                                    have improved capacities,
                                                                                                Davie County                                                    improvements in the form
     ES-2                                                    Severe Winter         High                                     Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      of generators or other heat
                                                             Weather
                                                                                                   Services                                                     sources are still necessary
                                                                                                                                                                and will be pursued. As of
                                                                                                                                                                2019, additional generators
                                                                                                                                                                and transfer switches have
                                                                                                                                                                been added to facilities
                                                                                                                                                                since 2014.
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                  The county has placed
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                 education materials
              branches of the Davie County public                                                                                                               concerning hazards in all
              library system.                                                                                                                                   branches of the county
                                                                                                Bermuda Run,
                                                                                                                                                                library, but this action will
                                                                                                Davie County
    PEA-1                                                          All             High                                     Local                   2025        need to be reviewed and
                                                                                                Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                revised as additional
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                information is likely
                                                                                                                                                                available and other
                                                                                                                                                                outreach strategies will be
                                                                                                                                                                explored. As of 2019, the
                                                                                                                                                                County still follows this
                                                                                                                                                                process.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:30
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule            Status (2025)
              Ensure that the Development Services                                                                                                               The Davie County
              Director is informed of erosion and                                                                                                                Development Services
              sedimentation control methods and                                                                                                                  Director has received
              pushes this information out to the                                                                                                                 training on erosion and
              public.                                                                                                                                            sedimentation control
                                                                                                                                                                 methods and on floodplain
                                                                                                                                                                 surveying certification. On
                                                                                                Bermuda Run,                                                     an annual basis, this
                                                                                                 Davie County                                                    person makes numerous
                                                                                                Development                                                      site visits to assist property
    PEA-2                                                        Flooding          High            Services                 Local               2025, Annually   owners and developers
                                                                                                Director, Davie                                                  with problems and
                                                                                               County Planning                                                   potential problems
                                                                                                  and Zoning                                                     associated with drainage,
                                                                                                                                                                 erosion, and flooding. Site
                                                                                                                                                                 visits are made at the
                                                                                                                                                                 request of the property
                                                                                                                                                                 owner or developer and
                                                                                                                                                                 are usually handled
                                                                                                                                                                 through the Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                 Zoning Department. As of
                                                                                                                                                                 2019, the County
                                                                                                                                                                 continues to follow this
                                                                                                                                                                 process.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:31
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Cooleemee Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Davie County updates the
              and include hazard mitigation                                                     Cooleemee,                                                      land use plan as needed
              objectives.                                                                       Davie County                                                    and includes hazard
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate                                    Local                Completed
                                                                                                Planning and                                                    mitigation strategies as a
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       routine part of this
                                                                                                                                                                process. This action will be
                                                                                                                                                                removed from the plan
                                                                                                                                                                during the 2025 update.

              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Through the planning and
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               zoning process, Davie
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  County ensures that there
              floodplain areas.                                                                 Cooleemee,                                                      is a low impact from
                                                                                                Davie County                                                    structures that may be in
     P-2                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                   2025
                                                                                                Planning and                                                    the 100-year floodplain by
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       denying or restricting
                                                                                                                                                                structures in these areas.


              Update the Subdivision Ordinance by                                                                                                               Hazard mitigation is a high
                                                                                                Cooleemee,
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                                                                                                priority and strategies have
                                                                                                Davie County
     P-4      mitigation objectives.                               All          Moderate                                    Local                   2025        been integrated and
                                                                                                Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                enforced through local
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                ordinances.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:32
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Review and revise the Planning                                                                                                                    Although clustering of
              Ordinance to allow for clustering of                                                                                                              development is allowed
              residential lots.                                                                 Cooleemee,                                                      through the watershed
                                                                                                Davie County                                                    protection chapter of the
     P-5                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                   2025
                                                                                                Planning and                                                    land usage article, the
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       county will work to further
                                                                                                                                                                encourage cluster
                                                                                                                                                                development in the future.
                                                                                                                                                                As of 2019 Davie County
                                                                                                                                                                has continued to
                                                                                                                                                                encourage cluster
                                                                                                                                                                development.
              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                  Davie County Floodplain
              floodplain maps.                                                                                                                                  maps are updated
                                                                                                Cooleemee,
                                                                                                                                                                regularly by the
                                                                                                Davie County
     P-6                                                        Flooding           High                                Federal, State               2025        State/FEMA. This action
                                                                                                Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                will be removed from the
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                plan during the 2025
                                                                                                                                                                update.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:33
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule            Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                               This is the process that
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                                Davie County uses to
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                 inspect flood damaged
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                     structures. This is not a
              inspected for flood related damage as                                                                                                              mitigation action and will
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                               be removed during the
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                 2025 plan update.
              property. Plan for Damaged
              Structures:
              1. Overall damage assessment/data
                   collection (visual inspection from
                                                                                                Cooleemee,
                   roadways).
                                                                                                Davie County                                     Action to be
     P-7      2. Data compiled and geographical                 Flooding           High                                     Local
                                                                                                   Building                                     deleted during
                   areas assigned to teams.
                                                                                                 Inspections                                    the 2025 plan
              3. Second detailed assessment by
                                                                                                                                                   update.
                   area teams.
              4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                   etc. that have been exposed to
                   water will be opened for
                   evaluation.
              5. All construction that is repaired,
                   replaced, dried or sealed will be
                   inspected before covered.
              6. Structure inspected for certificate
                   of compliance.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:34
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                     The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                        implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                               related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                               the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                    method outlined. This
                                                                                                Cooleemee,
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                                                                                      action will continue to be
                                                                                                Davie County                                   2025, Review and
     P-8      necessary while collecting damage                    All             High                                     Local                                  implemented going
                                                                                                   Building                                    update post-event
              assessment data; conduct inspections                                                                                                                 forward as required when
                                                                                                 Inspections
              on first come, first serve basis; 4)                                                                                                                 utilities are damaged.
              work overtime to expedite utility                                                                                                                    When this occurs, the
              reconnections.                                                                                                                                       policy will be re-evaluated
                                                                                                                                                                   to determine if changes
                                                                                                                                                                   are necessary. As of 2019
                                                                                                                                                                   the previous actions are
                                                                                                                                                                   still utilized. Additional
                                                                                                                                                                   notifications are made
                                                                                                                                                                   through the Everbridge
                                                                                                                                                                   program and on the
                                                                                                                                                                   County webpage.

              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                               The county has created a
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                  Cooleemee,                                                         zoning map, but it will
              staff and public use.                                                             Davie County                                                       need to be updated
     P-9                                                           All             High                                     Local                    2025
                                                                                                Planning and                                                       periodically in the future
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                          so this action will remain in
                                                                                                                                                                   place. As of 2019, the
                                                                                                                                                                   digital mapping is up to
                                                                                                                                                                   date and available to the
                                                                                                                                                                   public.
                                                                                       Property Protection




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:35
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             The county currently has a
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                               list of all repetitive loss
                                                                                                                                                                   properties, but that list will
                                                                                                Cooleemee,
                                                                                                                                                                   need to be updated to
                                                                                                Davie County                                      2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                                  ensure any repetitive loss
                                                                                                Planning and                                   review and update
                                                                                                                                                                   properties are on the radar
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                   of local officials and that
                                                                                                                                                                   mitigation strategies can
                                                                                                                                                                   be devised. As of 2019 the
                                                                                                                                                                   current list of repetitive
                                                                                                                                                                   loss properties is updated
                                                                                                                                                                   as needed.
                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Ensure adequate evacuation warning                                                                                                                   The county always works
              in case of major hazard event.                                                    Cooleemee,                                                         to ensure adequate
                                                                                                Davie County                                   2025, In advance    evacuation warning in the
     ES-1                                                          All             High                                     Local
                                                                                                 Emergency                                        of events        case of major hazard
                                                                                                  Services                                                         events and will continue to
                                                                                                                                                                   do so going forward. As of
                                                                                                                                                                   2019, the County uses
                                                                                                                                                                   Everbridge, local media
                                                                                                                                                                   resources and the County
                                                                                                                                                                   website to provide this
                                                                                                                                                                   information.
              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                      Although many shelters
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                     Cooleemee,                                                         have improved capacities,
                                                                                                Davie County                                                       improvements in the form
     ES-2                                                    Severe Winter         High                                     Local                    2025
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                         of generators or other heat
                                                             Weather
                                                                                                  Services                                                         sources are still necessary
                                                                                                                                                                   and will be pursued. As of
                                                                                                                                                                   2019, additional generators
                                                                                                                                                                   and transfer switches have
                                                                                                                                                                   been added to facilities
                                                                                                                                                                   since 2014.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:36
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)         Relative    Lead Agency/      Potential                        Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed         Priority     Department    Funding Sources                        Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                  The county has placed
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                 education materials
              branches of the Davie County public                                                                                                               concerning hazards in all
              library system.                                                                                                                                   branches of the county
                                                                                                Cooleemee,
                                                                                                                                                                library, but this action will
                                                                                                Davie County
    PEA-1                                                          All             High                                     Local                   2025        need to be reviewed and
                                                                                                Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                revised as additional
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                information is likely
                                                                                                                                                                available and other
                                                                                                                                                                outreach strategies will be
                                                                                                                                                                explored. As of 2019, the
                                                                                                                                                                County still follows this
                                                                                                                                                                process.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:37
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule            Status (2025)
              Ensure that the Development Services                                                                                                               The Davie County
              Director is informed of erosion and                                                                                                                Development Services
              sedimentation control methods and                                                                                                                  Director has received
              pushes this information out to the                                                                                                                 training on erosion and
              public.                                                                                                                                            sedimentation control
                                                                                                                                                                 methods and on floodplain
                                                                                                                                                                 surveying certification. On
                                                                                                 Cooleemee,                                                      an annual basis, this
                                                                                                 Davie County                                                    person makes numerous
                                                                                                Development                                                      site visits to assist property
    PEA-2                                                        Flooding          High            Services                 Local               2025, Annually   owners and developers
                                                                                                Director, Davie                                                  with problems and
                                                                                               County Planning                                                   potential problems
                                                                                                  and Zoning                                                     associated with drainage,
                                                                                                                                                                 erosion, and flooding. Site
                                                                                                                                                                 visits are made at the
                                                                                                                                                                 request of the property
                                                                                                                                                                 owner or developer and
                                                                                                                                                                 are usually handled
                                                                                                                                                                 through the Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                 Zoning Department. As of
                                                                                                                                                                 2019, the County
                                                                                                                                                                 continues to follow this
                                                                                                                                                                 process.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:38
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Mocksville Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Davie County updates the
              and include hazard mitigation                                                      Mocksville,                                                    land use plan as needed
              objectives.                                                                       Davie County                                                    and includes hazard
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate                                    Local                   2025
                                                                                                Planning and                                                    mitigation strategies as a
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       routine part of this
                                                                                                                                                                process. This action will be
                                                                                                                                                                removed from the plan
                                                                                                                                                                during the 2025 update.
              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Through the planning and
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               zoning process, Davie
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  County ensures that there
              floodplain areas.                                                                  Mocksville,                                                    is a low impact from
                                                                                                Davie County                                                    structures that may be in
     P-2                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                   2025
                                                                                                Planning and                                                    the 100-year floodplain by
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       denying or restricting
                                                                                                                                                                structures in these areas.


              Update the Subdivision Ordinance by                                                                                                               Hazard mitigation is a high
                                                                                                 Mocksville,
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                                                                                                priority and strategies have
                                                                                                Davie County
     P-4      mitigation objectives.                               All          Moderate                                    Local                   2025        been integrated and
                                                                                                Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                enforced through local
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                ordinances.
              Review and revise the Planning                                                                                                                    Although clustering of
              Ordinance to allow for clustering of                                                                                                              development is allowed
              residential lots.                                                                  Mocksville,                                                    through the watershed
                                                                                                Davie County                                                    protection chapter of the
     P-5                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                   2025
                                                                                                Planning and                                                    land usage article, the
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                       county will work to further
                                                                                                                                                                encourage cluster
                                                                                                                                                                development in the future.
                                                                                                                                                                As of 2019 Davie County
                                                                                                                                                                has continued to
                                                                                                                                                                encourage cluster
                                                                                                                                                                development.


Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:39
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                     Floodplain maps are
              floodplain maps.                                                                                                                                     updated by the state and
                                                                                                 Mocksville,
                                                                                                                                                                   while they have been
                                                                                                Davie County
     P-6                                                        Flooding           High                                Federal, State                2025          updated relatively
                                                                                                Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                   recently, another update
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                   of these maps is likely on
                                                                                                                                                                   the horizon.
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                                 This is the process that
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                                  Davie County uses to
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                   inspect flood damaged
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                       structures. This is not a
              inspected for flood related damage as                                                                                                                mitigation action and will
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                                 be removed during the
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                   2025 plan update.
              property. Plan for Damaged
              Structures:
               1. Overall damage assessment/data
                   collection (visual inspection from
                                                                                                 Mocksville,
                   roadways).
                                                                                                Davie County                                   2025, Review and
     P-7       2. Data compiled and geographical                Flooding           High                                     Local
                                                                                                   Building                                    update post-event
                   areas assigned to teams.
                                                                                                 Inspections
               3. Second detailed assessment by
                   area teams.
               4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                   etc. that have been exposed to
                   water will be opened for
                   evaluation.
               5. All construction that is repaired,
                   replaced, dried or sealed will be
                   inspected before covered.
               6. Structure inspected for certificate
                   of compliance.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                   9:40
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                     The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                        implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                               related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                               the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                    method outlined. This
                                                                                                 Mocksville,
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                                                                                      action will continue to be
                                                                                                Davie County                                   2025, Review and
     P-8      necessary while collecting damage                    All             High                                     Local                                  implemented going
                                                                                                   Building                                    update post-event
              assessment data; conduct inspections                                                                                                                 forward as required when
                                                                                                 Inspections
              on first come, first serve basis; 4)                                                                                                                 utilities are damaged.
              work overtime to expedite utility                                                                                                                    When this occurs, the
              reconnections.                                                                                                                                       policy will be re-evaluated
                                                                                                                                                                   to determine if changes
                                                                                                                                                                   are necessary. As of 2019
                                                                                                                                                                   the previous actions are
                                                                                                                                                                   still utilized. Additional
                                                                                                                                                                   notifications are made
                                                                                                                                                                   through the Everbridge
                                                                                                                                                                   program and on the
                                                                                                                                                                   County webpage.
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                               The county has created a
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                   Mocksville,                                                       zoning map, but it will
              staff and public use.                                                             Davie County                                                       need to be updated
     P-9                                                           All             High                                     Local                    2025
                                                                                                Planning and                                                       periodically in the future
                                                                                                   Zoning                                                          so this action will remain in
                                                                                                                                                                   place. As of 2019, the
                                                                                                                                                                   digital mapping is up to
                                                                                                                                                                   date and available to the
                                                                                                                                                                   public.
                                                                                       Property Protection




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:41
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             The county currently has a
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                               list of all repetitive loss
                                                                                                                                                                   properties, but that list will
                                                                                                 Mocksville,
                                                                                                                                                                   need to be updated to
                                                                                                Davie County                                      2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                                  ensure any repetitive loss
                                                                                                Planning and                                   review and update
                                                                                                                                                                   properties are on the radar
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                   of local officials and that
                                                                                                                                                                   mitigation strategies can
                                                                                                                                                                   be devised. As of 2019 the
                                                                                                                                                                   current list of repetitive
                                                                                                                                                                   loss properties is updated
                                                                                                                                                                   as needed.
                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Ensure adequate evacuation warning                                                                                                                   The county always works
              in case of major hazard event.                                                     Mocksville,                                                       to ensure adequate
                                                                                                Davie County                                   2025, In advance    evacuation warning in the
     ES-1                                                          All             High                                     Local
                                                                                                 Emergency                                        of events        case of major hazard
                                                                                                  Services                                                         events and will continue to
                                                                                                                                                                   do so going forward. As of
                                                                                                                                                                   2019, the County uses
                                                                                                                                                                   Everbridge, local media
                                                                                                                                                                   resources and the County
                                                                                                                                                                   website to provide this
                                                                                                                                                                   information.
              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                      Although many shelters
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                      Mocksville,                                                       have improved capacities,
                                                                                                Davie County                                                       improvements in the form
     ES-2                                                    Severe Winter         High                                     Local                    2025
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                         of generators or other heat
                                                             Weather
                                                                                                  Services                                                         sources are still necessary
                                                                                                                                                                   and will be pursued. As of
                                                                                                                                                                   2019, additional generators
                                                                                                                                                                   and transfer switches have
                                                                                                                                                                   been added to facilities
                                                                                                                                                                   since 2014.
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:42
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                  The county has placed
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                 education materials
              branches of the Davie County public                                                                                                               concerning hazards in all
              library system.                                                                                                                                   branches of the county
                                                                                                 Mocksville,
                                                                                                                                                                library, but this action will
                                                                                                Davie County
    PEA-1                                                          All             High                                     Local                   2025        need to be reviewed and
                                                                                                Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                revised as additional
                                                                                                   Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                information is likely
                                                                                                                                                                available and other
                                                                                                                                                                outreach strategies will be
                                                                                                                                                                explored. As of 2019, the
                                                                                                                                                                County still follows this
                                                                                                                                                                process.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:43
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule            Status (2025)
              Ensure that the Development Services                                                                                                               The Davie County
              Director is informed of erosion and                                                                                                                Development Services
              sedimentation control methods and                                                                                                                  Director has received
              pushes this information out to the                                                                                                                 training on erosion and
              public.                                                                                                                                            sedimentation control
                                                                                                                                                                 methods and on floodplain
                                                                                                                                                                 surveying certification. On
                                                                                                  Mocksville,                                                    an annual basis, this
                                                                                                 Davie County                                                    person makes numerous
                                                                                                Development                                                      site visits to assist property
    PEA-2                                                        Flooding          High            Services                 Local               2025, Annually   owners and developers
                                                                                                Director, Davie                                                  with problems and
                                                                                               County Planning                                                   potential problems
                                                                                                  and Zoning                                                     associated with drainage,
                                                                                                                                                                 erosion, and flooding. Site
                                                                                                                                                                 visits are made at the
                                                                                                                                                                 request of the property
                                                                                                                                                                 owner or developer and
                                                                                                                                                                 are usually handled
                                                                                                                                                                 through the Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                 Zoning Department. As of
                                                                                                                                                                 2019, the County
                                                                                                                                                                 continues to follow this
                                                                                                                                                                 process.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:44
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________


Forsyth County Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Many hazard mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives have been
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       included in the Land Use
                                                                                                                                                                Plan Update already but, in
                                                                                                                                                                conjunction with its efforts
                                                                                                   Winston-                                                     to improve its CRS rating,
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate        Salem/Forsyth               Local                   2025        the county will look at
                                                                                               County Planning                                                  including actions to
                                                                                                                                                                increase the amount of
                                                                                                                                                                open space it has and
                                                                                                                                                                prevent infrastructure
                                                                                                                                                                expansion in flood prone
                                                                                                                                                                areas.
              Revise, update, and locally adopt                                                                                                                 NCEM and Forsyth County
              floodplain maps (FIRMs – Flood                                                                                                                    multi-jurisdictional
              Insurance Rate Maps).                                                                                                                             floodplain management
                                                                                                                                                                officials work together to
                                                                                                                                                                identify flood prone areas
                                                                                               Winston-Salem
                                                                                                                       Federal, State,              2025        throughout the county in
     P-6                                                        Flooding           High         Stormwater
                                                                                                                           Local                                which to conduct detailed
                                                                                                  Division
                                                                                                                                                                flood studies during FIRM
                                                                                                                                                                revisions. NCEM has not
                                                                                                                                                                set a date for the
                                                                                                                                                                completion of updated
                                                                                                                                                                FIRMs.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:45
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________




   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative   Lead Agency/               Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority    Department             Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                      Property Protection
              To acquire and remove or elevate                                                                                                                  The City of Winston-Salem
              homes in flood prone areas.                                                                                                                       has multiple flood prone
                                                                                                                                                                areas and NFIP Repetitive
                                                                                                                                                                Loss properties. In 2009
                                                                                                                                                                and 2010, 2 repetitive
                                                                                                                                                                flood loss properties were
                                                                                                                                                                acquired by the City of
                                                                                                                                                                Winston-Salem. They were
                                                                                                                                                                demolished and removed
                                                                                                                                                                from the floodplain with
                                                                                                                                                                flood mitigation grant
                                                                                                                                                                monies from NCEM and
                                                                                                                                                                FEMA, which was
                                                                                                                                                                coordinated by the City of
                                                                                                                                                                Winston-Salem
                                                                                               Winston-Salem          Federal grants,
                                                                                                                                                   2025         Stormwater Department.
    PP-2                                                        Flooding           High         Stormwater            property owner
                                                                                                                                                                No structures were
                                                                                                  Division              cost share
                                                                                                                                                                acquired in 2011 due to
                                                                                                                                                                applications not reaching
                                                                                                                                                                the repetitive flood loss
                                                                                                                                                                threshold criteria
                                                                                                                                                                established by FEMA. In
                                                                                                                                                                2012, a mitigation grant
                                                                                                                                                                was obtained to acquire
                                                                                                                                                                and demolish a repetitive
                                                                                                                                                                flood loss structure in the
                                                                                                                                                                City. The City has applied
                                                                                                                                                                for 2 more grants to
                                                                                                                                                                removed flood-ravaged
                                                                                                                                                                structures at 2 additional
                                                                                                                                                                locations during the next
                                                                                                                                                                grant cycle.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:46
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative  Lead Agency/                Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority   Department              Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                      Emergency Services
              Equip an emergency shelter with an                                                   Winston-                                                     Displacement of
              alternate power source.                                                           Salem/Forsyth                                                   individuals and families
     ES-2                                                          All          Moderate            County             Federal grant,               2025        during emergencies
                                                                                                 Emergency            Local staff costs                         require local governments
                                                                                                Management                                                      to provide emergency
                                                                                                                                                                shelter. Past Forsyth
                                                                                                                                                                County events include
                                                                                                                                                                severe winter weather and
                                                                                                                                                                tropical systems, but
                                                                                                                                                                shelters may be used for
                                                                                                                                                                other types of
                                                                                                                                                                emergencies. These
                                                                                                                                                                emergencies often result
                                                                                                                                                                in widespread power
                                                                                                                                                                outages that affect shelter
                                                                                                                                                                locations. Shelter locations
                                                                                                                                                                include Winston-
                                                                                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth County
                                                                                                                                                                Schools. This action is
                                                                                                                                                                estimated to cost $50,000.
                                                                                                                                                                As of 2019, no monies
                                                                                                                                                                have become available to
                                                                                                                                                                support this activity




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:47
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule            Status (2025)
              Install stream gauges along flood prone                                                                                                            Gauges will be added at
              streams for flood warning and alerting                                                                                                             Muddy Creek at Highway
              purposes.                                                                                                                                          67/Reynolds Road and
                                                                                                                                                                 Salem Creek at Fraternity
                                                                                                                                                                 Church Road to monitor
                                                                                                                                                                 streams that contribute to
                                                                                                                                                                 flood prone areas and NFIP
                                                                                                                                                                 Repetitive Loss properties.
                                                                                                                                                                 Muddy Creek and Salem
                                                                                                                                                                 Creek meander through
                                                                                                                                                                 urban areas and the
                                                                                               Winston-Salem                                                     gauges would provide
                                                                                                                       Federal, Local,              2025
     ES-6                                                       Flooding        Moderate        Stormwater                                                       more accurate flash flood
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                  Division                                                       and river flood warning
                                                                                                                                                                 services as well as data
                                                                                                                                                                 related to pollutant
                                                                                                                                                                 loading. USGS Gauges will
                                                                                                                                                                 cost $75,000 (not including
                                                                                                                                                                 annual maintenance) at
                                                                                                                                                                 each location. NCEM
                                                                                                                                                                 gauges will cost $10,000
                                                                                                                                                                 (not including annual
                                                                                                                                                                 maintenance) at each
                                                                                                                                                                 location but record water
                                                                                                                                                                 level only.
              Acquisition of WebEOC (resource                                                                                                                    This software was
              management and communications                                                        Winston-                                                      purchased in 2015 by the
              software).                                                                        Salem/Forsyth                                                    city of Winston-Salem and
                                                                   All             High             County                  Local                Complete        is available via an annual
    ES-7a                                                                                        Emergency                                                       subscription to emergency
                                                                                                Management                                                       management partners
                                                                                                                                                                 throughout the county.

              Create maps indicating flood                                                                                                                       All high hazard dams
              inundation areas during high hazard                                                                                                                have been identified,
              dam failure.                                                                                                                                       mapped in individual
     ES-8                                                     Dam Failures         High          Map Forsyth          Local staff time          Current – 2025
                                                                                                                                                                 PDFs and placed on
                                                                                                                                                                 WebEOC.



Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:48
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)         Relative    Lead Agency/      Potential                        Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed         Priority     Department    Funding Sources                        Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Update flood protection, emergency                                                                                                                Complete
              preparedness, and other hazard
              education materials in Forsyth County                                                Winston-
              Public Library.                                                                   Salem/Forsyth           Local Library
                                                                                                                                                 Complete
    PEA-1                                                          All             High             County             System, FEMA
                                                                                                 Emergency              publications
                                                                                                Management


              Update and maintain ReadyFORSYTH                                                                                                                  This activity is updated on
              website, ReadyFORSYTH social media,                                                  Winston-                                                     a daily basis. The Ready
                                                                                                                                                  2025
    PEA-5     and ReadyFORSYTH web application                     All             High         Salem/Forsyth               Local                               FORSYTH website will be
              for mobile devices on a daily basis.                                                  County                                                      undergoing an upgrade
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      and ADA/508 compliant by
                                                                                                Management                                                      December 2019.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:49
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Bethania Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Many hazard mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives have been
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       included in the Land Use
                                                                                                                                                                Plan Update already but, in
                                                                                                   Town of                                                      conjunction with its efforts
                                                                                                  Bethania,                                                     to improve its CRS rating,
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate           Winston-                 Local                   2025        the county will look at
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth                                                   including actions to
                                                                                               County Planning                                                  increase the amount of
                                                                                                                                                                open space it has and
                                                                                                                                                                prevent infrastructure
                                                                                                                                                                expansion in flood prone
                                                                                                                                                                areas.
              Revise, update, and locally adopt                                                                                                                 NCEM and Forsyth County
              floodplain maps (FIRMs – Flood                                                                                                                    multi-jurisdictional
              Insurance Rate Maps).                                                                                                                             floodplain management
                                                                                                                                                                officials work together to
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                                                                                                                                identify flood prone areas
                                                                                                 Bethania,
                                                                                                                       Federal, State,           Present –      throughout the county in
     P-6                                                        Flooding           High        Winston-Salem
                                                                                                                           Local               December 2025    which to conduct detailed
                                                                                                Stormwater
                                                                                                                                                                flood studies during FIRM
                                                                                                  Division
                                                                                                                                                                revisions. NCEM has not
                                                                                                                                                                set a date for the
                                                                                                                                                                completion of updated
                                                                                                                                                                FIRMs.
                                                                                       Emergency Services




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:50
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Equip an emergency shelter with an                                                                                                                Displacement of
              alternate power source.                                                                                                                           individuals and families
                                                                                                                                                                during emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                require local governments
                                                                                                                                                                to provide emergency
                                                                                                                                                                shelter. Past Forsyth
                                                                                                                                                                County events include
                                                                                                   Winston-                                                     severe winter weather and
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth                                                   tropical systems, but
                                                                                                                       Federal grant,
     ES-2                                                          All           Moderate           County                                          2025        shelters may be used for
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      other types of
                                                                                                Management                                                      emergencies. These
                                                                                                                                                                emergencies often result
                                                                                                                                                                in widespread power
                                                                                                                                                                outages that affect shelter
                                                                                                                                                                locations. Shelter locations
                                                                                                                                                                include Winston-
                                                                                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth County
                                                                                                                                                                Schools. This action is
                                                                                                                                                                estimated to cost $50,000.
                                                                                                                                                                As of 2019, no monies
                                                                                                                                                                have become available to
                                                                                                                                                                support this activity.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:51
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Install stream gauges along flood prone                                                                                                           Gauges will be added at
              streams for flood warning and alerting                                                                                                            Muddy Creek at Highway
              purposes.                                                                                                                                         67/Reynolds Road and
                                                                                                                                                                Salem Creek at Fraternity
                                                                                                                                                                Church Road to monitor
                                                                                                                                                                streams that contribute to
                                                                                                                                                                flood prone areas and NFIP
                                                                                                                                                                Repetitive Loss properties.
                                                                                                                                                                Muddy Creek and Salem
                                                                                                                                                                Creek meander through
                                                                                                                                                                urban areas and the
                                                                                               Winston-Salem                                                    gauges would provide
                                                                                                                       Federal, Local,              2025
     ES-6                                                       Flooding        Moderate        Stormwater                                                      more accurate flash flood
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                  Division                                                      and river flood warning
                                                                                                                                                                services as well as data
                                                                                                                                                                related to pollutant
                                                                                                                                                                loading. USGS Gauges will
                                                                                                                                                                cost $75,000 (not including
                                                                                                                                                                annual maintenance) at
                                                                                                                                                                each location. NCEM
                                                                                                                                                                gauges will cost $10,000
                                                                                                                                                                (not including annual
                                                                                                                                                                maintenance) at each
                                                                                                                                                                location but record water
                                                                                                                                                                level only.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:52
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Acquisition of WebEOC (resource                                                                                                                   This software was
              management and communications                                                        Winston-                                                     purchased in 2015 by the
              software).                                                                        Salem/Forsyth                                                   city of Winston-Salem and
                                                                                                                                                  Complete      is available via an annual
    ES-7a                                                          All             High             County                  Local
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      subscription to emergency
                                                                                                Management                                                      management partners
                                                                                                                                                                throughout the county.
              Create maps indicating flood                                                                                                                      All high hazard dams
              inundation areas during high hazard                                                                                                               have been identified,
              dam failure.                                                                                                                                      mapped in individual
     ES-8                                                     Dam Failures         High          Map Forsyth          Local staff time               2025
                                                                                                                                                                PDFs and placed on
                                                                                                                                                                WebEOC.

                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Update flood protection, emergency                                                                                                                Complete
              preparedness, and other hazard
              education materials in Forsyth County                                                Winston-
              Public Library.                                                                   Salem/Forsyth           Local Library
                                                                                                                                                  Complete
    PEA-1                                                          All             High             County             System, FEMA
                                                                                                 Emergency              publications
                                                                                                Management


              Update and maintain ReadyFORSYTH                                                     Winston-                                                     This activity is updated on
    PEA-5     website, ReadyFORSYTH social media,                  All             High         Salem/Forsyth               Local                               a daily basis. The Ready
                                                                                                                                                    2025
              and ReadyFORSYTH web application                                                      County                                                      FORSYTH website will be
              for mobile devices on a daily basis.                                               Emergency                                                      undergoing an upgrade
                                                                                                Management                                                      and ADA/508 compliant by
                                                                                                                                                                December 2019.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:53
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Village of Clemmons Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Many hazard mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives have been
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       included in the Land Use
                                                                                                                                                                Plan Update already but, in
                                                                                                   Village of                                                   conjunction with its efforts
                                                                                                 Clemmons,                                                      to improve its CRS rating,
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate           Winston-                 Local                   2025        the county will look at
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth                                                   including actions to
                                                                                               County Planning                                                  increase the amount of
                                                                                                                                                                open space it has and
                                                                                                                                                                prevent infrastructure
                                                                                                                                                                expansion in flood prone
                                                                                                                                                                areas.
                                                                                       Emergency Services




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:54
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Equip an emergency shelter with an                                                                                                                Displacement of
              alternate power source.                                                                                                                           individuals and families
                                                                                                                                                                during emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                require local governments
                                                                                                                                                                to provide emergency
                                                                                                                                                                shelter. Past Forsyth
                                                                                                                                                                County events include
                                                                                                   Winston-                                                     Severe Winter Weathers
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth                                                   and tropical systems, but
                                                                                                                       Federal grant,               2025
     ES-2                                                          All          Moderate            County                                                      shelters may be used for
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      other types of
                                                                                                Management                                                      emergencies. These
                                                                                                                                                                emergencies often result
                                                                                                                                                                in widespread power
                                                                                                                                                                outages that affect shelter
                                                                                                                                                                locations. Shelter locations
                                                                                                                                                                include Winston-
                                                                                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth County
                                                                                                                                                                Schools. This action is
                                                                                                                                                                estimated to cost $50,000.
                                                                                                                                                                As of 2019, no monies
                                                                                                                                                                have become available to
                                                                                                                                                                support this activity.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:55
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Install stream gauges along flood prone                                                                                                           Gauges will be added at
              streams for flood warning and alerting                                                                                                            Muddy Creek at Highway
              purposes.                                                                                                                                         67/Reynolds Road and
                                                                                                                                                                Salem Creek at Fraternity
                                                                                                                                                                Church Road to monitor
                                                                                                                                                                streams that contribute to
                                                                                                                                                                flood prone areas and NFIP
                                                                                                                                                                Repetitive Loss properties.
                                                                                                                                                                Muddy Creek and Salem
                                                                                                                                                                Creek meander through
                                                                                                                                                                urban areas and the
                                                                                               Winston-Salem                                                    gauges would provide
                                                                                                                       Federal, Local,              2025
     ES-6                                                       Flooding        Moderate        Stormwater                                                      more accurate flash flood
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                  Division                                                      and river flood warning
                                                                                                                                                                services as well as data
                                                                                                                                                                related to pollutant
                                                                                                                                                                loading. USGS Gauges will
                                                                                                                                                                cost $75,000 (not including
                                                                                                                                                                annual maintenance) at
                                                                                                                                                                each location. NCEM
                                                                                                                                                                gauges will cost $10,000
                                                                                                                                                                (not including annual
                                                                                                                                                                maintenance) at each
                                                                                                                                                                location but record water
                                                                                                                                                                level only.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:56
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Acquisition of WebEOC (resource                                                      Winston-                                                     This software was
    ES-7a     management and communications                        All             High         Salem/Forsyth               Local               Complete        purchased in 2015 by the
              software).                                                                            County                                                      city of Winston-Salem and
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      is available via an annual
                                                                                                Management                                                      subscription to emergency
                                                                                                                                                                management partners
                                                                                                                                                                throughout the county.

              Create maps indicating flood                                                                                                                      All high hazard dams
              inundation areas during high hazard                                                                                                               have been identified,
              dam failure.                                                                                                                                      mapped in individual
     ES-8                                                     Dam Failures         High          Map Forsyth          Local staff time              2025        PDFs and placed on
                                                                                                                                                                WebEOC.

                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Update flood protection, emergency                                                                                                                Complete
              preparedness, and other hazard
              education materials in Forsyth County                                                Winston-
              Public Library.                                                                   Salem/Forsyth           Local Library
                                                                                                                                                  Complete
    PEA-1                                                          All             High             County             System, FEMA
                                                                                                 Emergency              publications
                                                                                                Management


              Update and maintain ReadyFORSYTH                                                     Winston-                                                     This activity is updated on
    PEA-5     website, ReadyFORSYTH social media,                  All             High         Salem/Forsyth               Local                               a daily basis. The Ready
                                                                                                                                                    2025
              and ReadyFORSYTH web application                                                      County                                                      FORSYTH website will be
              for mobile devices on a daily basis.                                               Emergency                                                      undergoing an upgrade
                                                                                                Management                                                      and ADA/508 compliant by
                                                                                                                                                                December 2019.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:57
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Kernersville Mitigation Action Plan

   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Many hazard mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives have been
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       included in the Land Use
                                                                                                                                                                Plan Update already but, in
                                                                                                   Town of                                                      conjunction with its efforts
                                                                                                 Kernersville,                                                  to improve its CRS rating,
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate           Winston-                 Local                   2025        the county will look at
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth                                                   including actions to
                                                                                               County Planning                                                  increase the amount of
                                                                                                                                                                open space it has and
                                                                                                                                                                prevent infrastructure
                                                                                                                                                                expansion in flood prone
                                                                                                                                                                areas.
              Revise, update, and locally adopt                                                                                                                 NCEM and Forsyth County
              floodplain maps (FIRMs – Flood                                                                                                                    multi-jurisdictional
              Insurance Rate Maps).                                                                                                                             floodplain management
                                                                                                                                                                officials work together to
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                                                                                                                                identify flood prone areas
                                                                                                Kernersville,
                                                                                                                       Federal, State,              2025        throughout the county in
     P-6                                                        Flooding           High        Winston-Salem
                                                                                                                           Local                                which to conduct detailed
                                                                                                Stormwater
                                                                                                                                                                flood studies during FIRM
                                                                                                  Division
                                                                                                                                                                revisions. NCEM has not
                                                                                                                                                                set a date for the
                                                                                                                                                                completion of updated
                                                                                                                                                                FIRMs.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:58
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative  Lead Agency/                Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority   Department              Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                      Emergency Services
              Equip an emergency shelter with an                                                                                                                Displacement of
              alternate power source.                                                                                                                           individuals and families
                                                                                                                                                                during emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                require local governments
                                                                                                                                                                to provide emergency
                                                                                                                                                                shelter. Past Forsyth
                                                                                                                                                                County events include
                                                                                                   Winston-                                                     Severe Winter Weathers
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth                                                   and tropical systems, but
                                                                                                                       Federal grant,               2025
     ES-2                                                          All          Moderate            County                                                      shelters may be used for
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      other types of
                                                                                                Management                                                      emergencies. These
                                                                                                                                                                emergencies often result
                                                                                                                                                                in widespread power
                                                                                                                                                                outages that affect shelter
                                                                                                                                                                locations. Shelter locations
                                                                                                                                                                include Winston-
                                                                                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth County
                                                                                                                                                                Schools. This action is
                                                                                                                                                                estimated to cost $50,000.
                                                                                                                                                                As of 2019, no monies
                                                                                                                                                                have become available to
                                                                                                                                                                          h




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:59
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Install stream gauges along flood prone                                                                                                           Gauges will be added at
              streams for flood warning and alerting                                                                                                            Muddy Creek at Highway
              purposes.                                                                                                                                         67/Reynolds Road and
                                                                                                                                                                Salem Creek at Fraternity
                                                                                                                                                                Church Road to monitor
                                                                                                                                                                streams that contribute to
                                                                                                                                                                flood prone areas and NFIP
                                                                                                                                                                Repetitive Loss properties.
                                                                                                                                                                Muddy Creek and Salem
                                                                                                                                                                Creek meander through
                                                                                                                                                                urban areas and the
                                                                                               Winston-Salem                                                    gauges would provide
                                                                                                                       Federal, Local,              2025
     ES-6                                                       Flooding        Moderate        Stormwater                                                      more accurate flash flood
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                  Division                                                      and river flood warning
                                                                                                                                                                services as well as data
                                                                                                                                                                related to pollutant
                                                                                                                                                                loading. USGS Gauges will
                                                                                                                                                                cost $75,000 (not including
                                                                                                                                                                annual maintenance) at
                                                                                                                                                                each location. NCEM
                                                                                                                                                                gauges will cost $10,000
                                                                                                                                                                (not including annual
                                                                                                                                                                maintenance) at each
                                                                                                                                                                location but record water
                                                                                                                                                                level only.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:60
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Acquisition of WebEOC (resource                                                      Winston-                                                     This software was
    ES-7a     management and communications                        All             High         Salem/Forsyth               Local                               purchased in 2015 by the
              software).                                                                            County                                        Complete      city of Winston-Salem and
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      is available via an annual
                                                                                                Management                                                      subscription to emergency
                                                                                                                                                                management partners
                                                                                                                                                                throughout the county.
              Create maps indicating flood                                                                                                                      All high hazard dams
              inundation areas during high hazard                                                                                                               have been identified,
              dam failure.                                                                                                                          2025        mapped in individual
     ES-8                                                     Dam Failures         High          Map Forsyth          Local staff time
                                                                                                                                                                PDFs and placed on
                                                                                                                                                                WebEOC.

                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Update flood protection, emergency                                                                                                                Complete
              preparedness, and other hazard
              education materials in Forsyth County                                                Winston-
              Public Library.                                                                   Salem/Forsyth           Local Library
                                                                                                                                                  Complete
    PEA-1                                                          All             High             County             System, FEMA
                                                                                                 Emergency              publications
                                                                                                Management


              Update and maintain ReadyFORSYTH                                                     Winston-                                                     This activity is updated on
    PEA-5     website, ReadyFORSYTH social media,                  All             High         Salem/Forsyth               Local                   2025        a daily basis. The Ready
              and ReadyFORSYTH web application                                                      County                                                      FORSYTH website will be
              for mobile devices on a daily basis.                                               Emergency                                                      undergoing an upgrade
                                                                                                Management                                                      and ADA/508 compliant by
                                                                                                                                                                December 2019.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:61
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Lewisville Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Many hazard mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives have been
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       included in the Land Use
                                                                                                                                                                Plan Update already but, in
                                                                                                   Town of                                                      conjunction with its efforts
                                                                                                  Lewisville,                                                   to improve its CRS rating,
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate           Winston-                 Local                   2025        the county will look at
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth                                                   including actions to
                                                                                               County Planning                                                  increase the amount of
                                                                                                                                                                open space it has and
                                                                                                                                                                prevent infrastructure
                                                                                                                                                                expansion in flood prone
                                                                                                                                                                areas.
              Revise, update, and locally adopt                                                                                                                 NCEM and Forsyth County
              floodplain maps (FIRMs – Flood                                                                                                                    multi-jurisdictional
              Insurance Rate Maps).                                                                                                                             floodplain management
                                                                                                                                                                officials work together to
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                                                                                                                                identify flood prone areas
                                                                                                 Lewisville,
                                                                                                                       Federal, State,              2025        throughout the county in
     P-6                                                        Flooding           High        Winston-Salem
                                                                                                                           Local                                which to conduct detailed
                                                                                                Stormwater
                                                                                                                                                                flood studies during FIRM
                                                                                                  Division
                                                                                                                                                                revisions. NCEM has not
                                                                                                                                                                set a date for the
                                                                                                                                                                completion of updated
                                                                                                                                                                FIRMs.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:62
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative  Lead Agency/                Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority   Department              Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                      Emergency Services
              Equip an emergency shelter with an                                                                                                                Displacement of
              alternate power source.                                                                                                                           individuals and families
                                                                                                                                                                during emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                require local governments
                                                                                                                                                                to provide emergency
                                                                                                                                                                shelter. Past Forsyth
                                                                                                                                                                County events include
                                                                                                   Winston-                                                     Severe Winter Weathers
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth                                                   and tropical systems, but
                                                                                                                       Federal grant,               2025
     ES-2                                                          All          Moderate            County                                                      shelters may be used for
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      other types of
                                                                                                Management                                                      emergencies. These
                                                                                                                                                                emergencies often result
                                                                                                                                                                in widespread power
                                                                                                                                                                outages that affect shelter
                                                                                                                                                                locations. Shelter locations
                                                                                                                                                                include Winston-
                                                                                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth County
                                                                                                                                                                Schools. This action is
                                                                                                                                                                estimated to cost $50,000.
                                                                                                                                                                As of 2019, no monies
                                                                                                                                                                have become available to
                                                                                                                                                                          h




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:63
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________




   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Install stream gauges along flood prone                                                                                                           Gauges will be added at
              streams for flood warning and alerting                                                                                                            Muddy Creek at Highway
              purposes.                                                                                                                                         67/Reynolds Road and
                                                                                                                                                                Salem Creek at Fraternity
                                                                                                                                                                Church Road to monitor
                                                                                                                                                                streams that contribute to
                                                                                                                                                                flood prone areas and NFIP
                                                                                                                                                                Repetitive Loss properties.
                                                                                                                                                                Muddy Creek and Salem
                                                                                                                                                                Creek meander through
                                                                                                                                                                urban areas and the
                                                                                               Winston-Salem                                                    gauges would provide
                                                                                                                       Federal, Local,              2025
     ES-6                                                       Flooding        Moderate        Stormwater                                                      more accurate flash flood
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                  Division                                                      and river flood warning
                                                                                                                                                                services as well as data
                                                                                                                                                                related to pollutant
                                                                                                                                                                loading. USGS Gauges will
                                                                                                                                                                cost $75,000 (not including
                                                                                                                                                                annual maintenance) at
                                                                                                                                                                each location. NCEM
                                                                                                                                                                gauges will cost $10,000
                                                                                                                                                                (not including annual
                                                                                                                                                                maintenance) at each
                                                                                                                                                                location but record water
                                                                                                                                                                level only.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:64
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Acquisition of WebEOC (resource                                                      Winston-                                                     This software was
    ES-7a     management and communications                        All             High         Salem/Forsyth               Local                               purchased in 2015 by the
              software).                                                                            County                                        Complete      city of Winston-Salem and
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      is available via an annual
                                                                                                Management                                                      subscription to emergency
                                                                                                                                                                management partners
                                                                                                                                                                throughout the county.

              Create maps indicating flood                                                                                                                      All high hazard dams
              inundation areas during high hazard                                                                                                               have been identified,
              dam failure.                                                                                                                          2025        mapped in individual
     ES-8                                                     Dam Failures         High          Map Forsyth          Local staff time
                                                                                                                                                                PDFs and placed on
                                                                                                                                                                WebEOC.

                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Update flood protection, emergency                                                                                                                Complete
              preparedness, and other hazard
              education materials in Forsyth County                                                Winston-
              Public Library.                                                                   Salem/Forsyth           Local Library
    PEA-1                                                          All             High             County             System, FEMA               Complete
                                                                                                 Emergency              publications
                                                                                                Management


              Update and maintain ReadyFORSYTH                                                     Winston-                                                     This activity is updated on
    PEA-5     website, ReadyFORSYTH social media,                  All             High         Salem/Forsyth               Local                   2025        a daily basis. The Ready
              and ReadyFORSYTH web application                                                      County                                                      FORSYTH website will be
              for mobile devices on a daily basis.                                               Emergency                                                      undergoing an upgrade
                                                                                                Management                                                      and ADA/508 compliant by
                                                                                                                                                                December 2019.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:65
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Rural Hall Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Many hazard mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives have been
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       included in the Land Use
                                                                                                                                                                Plan Update already but, in
                                                                                                                                                                conjunction with its efforts
                                                                                                Town of Rural
                                                                                                                                                                to improve its CRS rating,
                                                                                               Hall, Winston-
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate                                    Local                   2025        the county will look at
                                                                                               Salem/Forsyth
                                                                                                                                                                including actions to
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                                                                                increase the amount of
                                                                                                                                                                open space it has and
                                                                                                                                                                prevent infrastructure
                                                                                                                                                                expansion in flood prone
                                                                                                                                                                areas.
                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Equip an emergency shelter with an                                                                                                                Displacement of
              alternate power source.                                                                                                                           individuals and families
                                                                                                                                                                during emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                require local governments
                                                                                                                                                                to provide emergency
                                                                                                                                                                shelter. Past Forsyth
                                                                                                                                                                County events include
                                                                                                   Winston-                                                     Severe Winter Weathers
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth                                                   and tropical systems, but
                                                                                                                       Federal grant,               2025
     ES-2                                                          All          Moderate            County                                                      shelters may be used for
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      other types of
                                                                                                Management                                                      emergencies. These
                                                                                                                                                                emergencies often result
                                                                                                                                                                in widespread power
                                                                                                                                                                outages that affect shelter
                                                                                                                                                                locations. Shelter locations
                                                                                                                                                                include Winston-
                                                                                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth County
                                                                                                                                                                Schools. This action is
                                                                                                                                                                estimated to cost $50,000.
                                                                                                                                                                As of 2019, no monies
                                                                                                                                                                have become available to


Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:66
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________




   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Install stream gauges along flood prone                                                                                                           Gauges will be added at
              streams for flood warning and alerting                                                                                                            Muddy Creek at Highway
              purposes.                                                                                                                                         67/Reynolds Road and
                                                                                                                                                                Salem Creek at Fraternity
                                                                                                                                                                Church Road to monitor
                                                                                                                                                                streams that contribute to
                                                                                                                                                                flood prone areas and NFIP
                                                                                                                                                                Repetitive Loss properties.
                                                                                                                                                                Muddy Creek and Salem
                                                                                                                                                                Creek meander through
                                                                                                                                                                urban areas and the
                                                                                               Winston-Salem                                                    gauges would provide
                                                                                                                       Federal, Local,              2025
     ES-6                                                       Flooding        Moderate        Stormwater                                                      more accurate flash flood
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                  Division                                                      and river flood warning
                                                                                                                                                                services as well as data
                                                                                                                                                                related to pollutant
                                                                                                                                                                loading. USGS Gauges will
                                                                                                                                                                cost $75,000 (not including
                                                                                                                                                                annual maintenance) at
                                                                                                                                                                each location. NCEM
                                                                                                                                                                gauges will cost $10,000
                                                                                                                                                                (not including annual
                                                                                                                                                                maintenance) at each
                                                                                                                                                                location but record water
                                                                                                                                                                level only.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:67
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Acquisition of WebEOC (resource                                                      Winston-                                                     This software was
    ES-7a     management and communications                        All             High         Salem/Forsyth               Local                               purchased in 2015 by the
              software).                                                                            County                                        Complete      city of Winston-Salem and
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      is available via an annual
                                                                                                Management                                                      subscription to emergency
                                                                                                                                                                management partners
                                                                                                                                                                throughout the county.
              Create maps indicating flood                                                                                                                      All high hazard dams
              inundation areas during high hazard                                                                                                               have been identified,
              dam failure.                                                                                                                          2025        mapped in individual
     ES-8                                                     Dam Failures         High          Map Forsyth          Local staff time
                                                                                                                                                                PDFs and placed on
                                                                                                                                                                WebEOC.

                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Update flood protection, emergency                                                                                                                Complete
              preparedness, and other hazard
              education materials in Forsyth County                                                Winston-
              Public Library.                                                                   Salem/Forsyth           Local Library
                                                                                                                                                  Complete
    PEA-1                                                          All             High             County             System, FEMA
                                                                                                 Emergency              publications
                                                                                                Management


              Update and maintain ReadyFORSYTH                                                     Winston-                                                     This activity is updated on
    PEA-5     website, ReadyFORSYTH social media,                  All             High         Salem/Forsyth               Local                   2025        a daily basis. The Ready
              and ReadyFORSYTH web application                                                      County                                                      FORSYTH website will be
              for mobile devices on a daily basis.                                               Emergency                                                      undergoing an upgrade
                                                                                                Management                                                      and ADA/508 compliant by
                                                                                                                                                                December 2019.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:68
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Village of Tobaccoville Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Many hazard mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives have been
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       included in the Land Use
                                                                                                                                                                Plan Update already but, in
                                                                                                   Village of                                                   conjunction with its efforts
                                                                                                 Tobaccoville,                                                  to improve its CRS rating,
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate           Winston-                 Local                   2025        the county will look at
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth                                                   including actions to
                                                                                               County Planning                                                  increase the amount of
                                                                                                                                                                open space it has and
                                                                                                                                                                prevent infrastructure
                                                                                                                                                                expansion in flood prone
                                                                                                                                                                areas.
              Revise, update, and locally adopt                                                                                                                 NCEM and Forsyth County
              floodplain maps (FIRMs – Flood                                                                                                                    multi-jurisdictional
              Insurance Rate Maps).                                                                                                                             floodplain management
                                                                                                                                                                officials work together to
                                                                                                  Village of
                                                                                                                                                                identify flood prone areas
                                                                                                Tobaccoville,
                                                                                                                       Federal, State,              2025        throughout the county in
     P-6                                                        Flooding           High        Winston-Salem
                                                                                                                           Local                                which to conduct detailed
                                                                                                Stormwater
                                                                                                                                                                flood studies during FIRM
                                                                                                  Division
                                                                                                                                                                revisions. NCEM has not
                                                                                                                                                                set a date for the
                                                                                                                                                                completion of updated
                                                                                                                                                                FIRMs.
                                                                                       Emergency Services




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:69
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Equip an emergency shelter with an                                                                                                                Displacement of
              alternate power source.                                                                                                                           individuals and families
                                                                                                                                                                during emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                require local governments
                                                                                                                                                                to provide emergency
                                                                                                                                                                shelter. Past Forsyth
                                                                                                                                                                County events include
                                                                                                   Winston-                                                     Severe Winter Weathers
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth                                                   and tropical systems, but
                                                                                                                       Federal grant,               2025
     ES-2                                                          All          Moderate            County                                                      shelters may be used for
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      other types of
                                                                                                Management                                                      emergencies. These
                                                                                                                                                                emergencies often result
                                                                                                                                                                in widespread power
                                                                                                                                                                outages that affect shelter
                                                                                                                                                                locations. Shelter locations
                                                                                                                                                                include Winston-
                                                                                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth County
                                                                                                                                                                Schools. This action is
                                                                                                                                                                estimated to cost $50,000.
                                                                                                                                                                As of 2019, no monies
                                                                                                                                                                have become available to
                                                                                                                                                                          h




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:70
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Install stream gauges along flood prone                                                                                                           Gauges will be added at
              streams for flood warning and alerting                                                                                                            Muddy Creek at Highway
              purposes.                                                                                                                                         67/Reynolds Road and
                                                                                                                                                                Salem Creek at Fraternity
                                                                                                                                                                Church Road to monitor
                                                                                                                                                                streams that contribute to
                                                                                                                                                                flood prone areas and NFIP
                                                                                                                                                                Repetitive Loss properties.
                                                                                                                                                                Muddy Creek and Salem
                                                                                                                                                                Creek meander through
                                                                                                                                                                urban areas and the
                                                                                               Winston-Salem                                                    gauges would provide
                                                                                                                       Federal, Local,              2025
     ES-6                                                       Flooding        Moderate        Stormwater                                                      more accurate flash flood
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                  Division                                                      and river flood warning
                                                                                                                                                                services as well as data
                                                                                                                                                                related to pollutant
                                                                                                                                                                loading. USGS Gauges will
                                                                                                                                                                cost $75,000 (not including
                                                                                                                                                                annual maintenance) at
                                                                                                                                                                each location. NCEM
                                                                                                                                                                gauges will cost $10,000
                                                                                                                                                                (not including annual
                                                                                                                                                                maintenance) at each
                                                                                                                                                                location but record water
                                                                                                                                                                level only.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:71
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Acquisition of WebEOC (resource                                                      Winston-                                                     This software was
    ES-7a     management and communications                        All             High         Salem/Forsyth               Local                               purchased in 2015 by the
              software).                                                                            County                                        Complete      city of Winston-Salem and
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      is available via an annual
                                                                                                Management                                                      subscription to emergency
                                                                                                                                                                management partners
                                                                                                                                                                throughout the county.
              Create maps indicating flood                                                                                                                      All high hazard dams
              inundation areas during high hazard                                                                                                               have been identified,
              dam failure.                                                                                                                          2025        mapped in individual
     ES-8                                                     Dam Failures         High          Map Forsyth          Local staff time
                                                                                                                                                                PDFs and placed on
                                                                                                                                                                WebEOC.
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Update flood protection, emergency                                                                                                                Complete
              preparedness, and other hazard
              education materials in Forsyth County                                                Winston-
              Public Library.                                                                   Salem/Forsyth           Local Library
                                                                                                                                                  Complete
    PEA-1                                                          All             High             County             System, FEMA
                                                                                                 Emergency              publications
                                                                                                Management


              Update and maintain ReadyFORSYTH                                                     Winston-                                                     This activity is updated on
    PEA-5     website, ReadyFORSYTH social media,                  All             High         Salem/Forsyth               Local                               a daily basis. The Ready
                                                                                                                                                    2025
              and ReadyFORSYTH web application                                                      County                                                      FORSYTH website will be
              for mobile devices on a daily basis.                                               Emergency                                                      undergoing an upgrade
                                                                                                Management                                                      and ADA/508 compliant by
                                                                                                                                                                December 2019.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:72
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Walkertown Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Many hazard mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives have been
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       included in the Land Use
                                                                                                                                                                Plan Update already but, in
                                                                                                   Town of                                                      conjunction with its efforts
                                                                                                 Walkertown,                                                    to improve its CRS rating,
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate           Winston-                 Local                   2025        the county will look at
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth                                                   including actions to
                                                                                               County Planning                                                  increase the amount of
                                                                                                                                                                open space it has and
                                                                                                                                                                prevent infrastructure
                                                                                                                                                                expansion in flood prone
                                                                                                                                                                areas.
              Revise, update, and locally adopt                                                                                                                 NCEM and Forsyth County
              floodplain maps (FIRMs – Flood                                                                                                                    multi-jurisdictional
              Insurance Rate Maps).                                                                                                                             floodplain management
                                                                                                                                                                officials work together to
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                                                                                                                                identify flood prone areas
                                                                                                Walkertown,
                                                                                                                       Federal, State,              2025        throughout the county in
     P-6                                                        Flooding           High        Winston-Salem
                                                                                                                           Local                                which to conduct detailed
                                                                                                Stormwater
                                                                                                                                                                flood studies during FIRM
                                                                                                  Division
                                                                                                                                                                revisions. NCEM has not
                                                                                                                                                                set a date for the
                                                                                                                                                                completion of updated
                                                                                                                                                                FIRMs.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:73
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative  Lead Agency/                Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority   Department              Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                      Emergency Services
              Equip an emergency shelter with an                                                                                                                Displacement of
              alternate power source.                                                                                                                           individuals and families
                                                                                                                                                                during emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                require local governments
                                                                                                                                                                to provide emergency
                                                                                                                                                                shelter. Past Forsyth
                                                                                                                                                                County events include
                                                                                                   Winston-                                                     Severe Winter Weathers
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth                                                   and tropical systems, but
                                                                                                                       Federal grant,               2025
     ES-2                                                          All          Moderate            County                                                      shelters may be used for
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      other types of
                                                                                                Management                                                      emergencies. These
                                                                                                                                                                emergencies often result
                                                                                                                                                                in widespread power
                                                                                                                                                                outages that affect shelter
                                                                                                                                                                locations. Shelter locations
                                                                                                                                                                include Winston-
                                                                                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth County
                                                                                                                                                                Schools. This action is
                                                                                                                                                                estimated to cost $50,000.
                                                                                                                                                                As of 2019, no monies
                                                                                                                                                                have become available to
                                                                                                                                                                          h




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:74
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Install stream gauges along flood prone                                                                                                           Gauges will be added at
              streams for flood warning and alerting                                                                                                            Muddy Creek at Highway
              purposes.                                                                                                                                         67/Reynolds Road and
                                                                                                                                                                Salem Creek at Fraternity
                                                                                                                                                                Church Road to monitor
                                                                                                                                                                streams that contribute to
                                                                                                                                                                flood prone areas and NFIP
                                                                                                                                                                Repetitive Loss properties.
                                                                                                                                                                Muddy Creek and Salem
                                                                                                                                                                Creek meander through
                                                                                                                                                                urban areas and the
                                                                                               Winston-Salem                                                    gauges would provide
                                                                                                                       Federal, Local,              2025
     ES-6                                                       Flooding        Moderate        Stormwater                                                      more accurate flash flood
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                  Division                                                      and river flood warning
                                                                                                                                                                services as well as data
                                                                                                                                                                related to pollutant
                                                                                                                                                                loading. USGS Gauges will
                                                                                                                                                                cost $75,000 (not including
                                                                                                                                                                annual maintenance) at
                                                                                                                                                                each location. NCEM
                                                                                                                                                                gauges will cost $10,000
                                                                                                                                                                (not including annual
                                                                                                                                                                maintenance) at each
                                                                                                                                                                location but record water
                                                                                                                                                                level only.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:75
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Acquisition of WebEOC (resource                                                      Winston-                                                     This software was
    ES-7a     management and communications                        All             High         Salem/Forsyth               Local                               purchased in 2015 by the
              software).                                                                            County                                        Complete      city of Winston-Salem and
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      is available via an annual
                                                                                                Management                                                      subscription to emergency
                                                                                                                                                                management partners
                                                                                                                                                                throughout the county.
              Create maps indicating flood                                                                                                                      All high hazard dams
              inundation areas during high hazard                                                                                                               have been identified,
              dam failure.                                                                                                                          2025        mapped in individual
     ES-8                                                     Dam Failures         High          Map Forsyth          Local staff time
                                                                                                                                                                PDFs and placed on
                                                                                                                                                                WebEOC.
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Update flood protection, emergency                                                                                                                Complete
              preparedness, and other hazard
              education materials in Forsyth County                                                Winston-
              Public Library.                                                                   Salem/Forsyth           Local Library
                                                                                                                                                  Complete
    PEA-1                                                          All             High             County             System, FEMA
                                                                                                 Emergency              publications
                                                                                                Management


              Update and maintain ReadyFORSYTH                                                                                                                  This activity is updated on
    PEA-5     website, ReadyFORSYTH social media,                  All             High            Winston-                 Local                               a daily basis. The Ready
                                                                                                                                                    2025
              and ReadyFORSYTH web application                                                  Salem/Forsyth                                                   FORSYTH website will be
              for mobile devices on a daily basis.                                                  County                                                      undergoing an upgrade
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      and ADA/508 compliant by
                                                                                                Management                                                      December 2019.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:76
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
City of Winston-Salem Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Many hazard mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives have been
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       included in the Land Use
                                                                                                                                                                Plan Update already but, in
                                                                                                                                                                conjunction with its efforts
                                                                                               City of Winston-
                                                                                                                                                                to improve its CRS rating,
                                                                                               Salem, Winston-
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate                                    Local                   2025        the county will look at
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth
                                                                                                                                                                including actions to
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                                                                                increase the amount of
                                                                                                                                                                open space it has and
                                                                                                                                                                prevent infrastructure
                                                                                                                                                                expansion in flood prone
                                                                                                                                                                areas.
              Revise, update, and locally adopt                                                                                                                 NCEM and Forsyth County
              floodplain maps (FIRMs – Flood                                                                                                                    multi-jurisdictional
              Insurance Rate Maps).                                                                                                                             floodplain management
                                                                                                                                                                officials work together to
                                                                                               City of Winston-
                                                                                                                                                                identify flood prone areas
                                                                                               Salem, Winston-
                                                                                                                       Federal, State,              2025        throughout the county in
     P-6                                                        Flooding           High              Salem
                                                                                                                           Local                                which to conduct detailed
                                                                                                 Stormwater
                                                                                                                                                                flood studies during FIRM
                                                                                                    Division
                                                                                                                                                                revisions. NCEM has not
                                                                                                                                                                set a date for the
                                                                                                                                                                completion of updated
                                                                                                                                                                FIRMs.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:77
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative   Lead Agency/               Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority    Department             Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                      Property Protection
              To acquire and remove or elevate                                                                                                                  The City of Winston-Salem
              homes in flood prone areas.                                                                                                                       has multiple flood prone
                                                                                                                                                                areas and NFIP Repetitive
                                                                                                                                                                Loss properties. In 2009
                                                                                                                                                                and 2010, 2 repetitive
                                                                                                                                                                flood loss properties were
                                                                                                                                                                acquired by the City of
                                                                                                                                                                Winston-Salem. They were
                                                                                                                                                                demolished and removed
                                                                                                                                                                from the floodplain with
                                                                                                                                                                flood mitigation grant
                                                                                                                                                                monies from NCEM and
                                                                                                                                                                FEMA, which was
                                                                                                                                                                coordinated by the City of
                                                                                                                                                                Winston-Salem
                                                                                               Winston-Salem          Federal grants,
                                                                                                                                                  2025          Stormwater Department.
    PP-2                                                        Flooding           High         Stormwater            property owner
                                                                                                                                                                No structures were
                                                                                                  Division              cost share
                                                                                                                                                                acquired in 2011 due to
                                                                                                                                                                applications not reaching
                                                                                                                                                                the repetitive flood loss
                                                                                                                                                                threshold criteria
                                                                                                                                                                established by FEMA. In
                                                                                                                                                                2012, a mitigation grant
                                                                                                                                                                was obtained to acquire
                                                                                                                                                                and demolish a repetitive
                                                                                                                                                                flood loss structure in the
                                                                                                                                                                City. The City has applied
                                                                                                                                                                for 2 more grants to
                                                                                                                                                                removed flood-ravaged
                                                                                                                                                                structures at 2 additional
                                                                                                                                                                locations during the next
                                                                                                                                                                grant cycle.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:78
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative  Lead Agency/                Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority   Department              Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                      Emergency Services
              Equip an emergency shelter with an                                                                                                                Displacement of
              alternate power source.                                                                                                                           individuals and families
                                                                                                                                                                during emergencies
                                                                                                                                                                require local governments
                                                                                                                                                                to provide emergency
                                                                                                                                                                shelter. Past Forsyth
                                                                                                                                                                County events include
                                                                                                   Winston-                                                     Severe Winter Weathers
                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth                                                   and tropical systems, but
                                                                                                                       Federal grant,               2025
     ES-2                                                          All          Moderate            County                                                      shelters may be used for
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      other types of
                                                                                                Management                                                      emergencies. These
                                                                                                                                                                emergencies often result
                                                                                                                                                                in widespread power
                                                                                                                                                                outages that affect shelter
                                                                                                                                                                locations. Shelter locations
                                                                                                                                                                include Winston-
                                                                                                                                                                Salem/Forsyth County
                                                                                                                                                                Schools. This action is
                                                                                                                                                                estimated to cost $50,000.
                                                                                                                                                                As of 2019, no monies
                                                                                                                                                                have become available to
                                                                                                                                                                          h




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:79
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Install stream gauges along flood prone                                                                                                           Gauges will be added at
              streams for flood warning and alerting                                                                                                            Muddy Creek at Highway
              purposes.                                                                                                                                         67/Reynolds Road and
                                                                                                                                                                Salem Creek at Fraternity
                                                                                                                                                                Church Road to monitor
                                                                                                                                                                streams that contribute to
                                                                                                                                                                flood prone areas and NFIP
                                                                                                                                                                Repetitive Loss properties.
                                                                                                                                                                Muddy Creek and Salem
                                                                                                                                                                Creek meander through
                                                                                                                                                                urban areas and the
                                                                                               Winston-Salem                                                    gauges would provide
                                                                                                                       Federal, Local,              2025
     ES-6                                                       Flooding        Moderate        Stormwater                                                      more accurate flash flood
                                                                                                                      Local staff costs
                                                                                                  Division                                                      and river flood warning
                                                                                                                                                                services as well as data
                                                                                                                                                                related to pollutant
                                                                                                                                                                loading. USGS Gauges will
                                                                                                                                                                cost $75,000 (not including
                                                                                                                                                                annual maintenance) at
                                                                                                                                                                each location. NCEM
                                                                                                                                                                gauges will cost $10,000
                                                                                                                                                                (not including annual
                                                                                                                                                                maintenance) at each
                                                                                                                                                                location but record water
                                                                                                                                                                level only.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:80
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Acquisition of WebEOC (resource                                                      Winston-                                                     This software was
    ES-7a     management and communications                        All             High         Salem/Forsyth               Local                 Complete      purchased in 2015 by the
              software).                                                                            County                                                      city of Winston-Salem and
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      is available via an annual
                                                                                                Management                                                      subscription to emergency
                                                                                                                                                                management partners
                                                                                                                                                                throughout the county.
              Create maps indicating flood                                                                                                                      All high hazard dams
              inundation areas during high hazard                                                                                                               have been identified,
              dam failure.                                                                                                                          2025        mapped in individual
     ES-8                                                     Dam Failures         High          Map Forsyth          Local staff time
                                                                                                                                                                PDFs and placed on
                                                                                                                                                                WebEOC.
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Update flood protection, emergency                                                                                                                Complete
              preparedness, and other hazard
              education materials in Forsyth County                                                Winston-
              Public Library.                                                                   Salem/Forsyth           Local Library
                                                                                                                                                  Complete
    PEA-1                                                          All             High             County             System, FEMA
                                                                                                 Emergency              publications
                                                                                                Management


              Update and maintain ReadyFORSYTH                                                                                                                  This activity is updated on
    PEA-5     website, ReadyFORSYTH social media,                  All             High            Winston-                 Local                               a daily basis. The Ready
                                                                                                                                                    2025
              and ReadyFORSYTH web application                                                  Salem/Forsyth                                                   FORSYTH website will be
              for mobile devices on a daily basis.                                                  County                                                      undergoing an upgrade
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      and ADA/508 compliant by
                                                                                                Management                                                      December 2019.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:81
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Rockingham County Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Hazard Mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives are
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       reviewed annually.
                                                                                                Rockingham
                                                                                                                                               2025, Reviewed
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate       County Planning              Local
                                                                                                                                                  Annually
                                                                                                 and Zoning



              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Generally, there are
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               policies in place to
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  minimize new structures
              floodplain areas.                                                                                                                                 being located in the
                                                                                                Rockingham                                     2025, Reviewed
                                                            Flooding /                                                                                          floodplain. However,
     P-2                                                                        Moderate       County Planning              Local                 Annually
                                                            Dam Failures                                                                                        additional regulations may
                                                                                                 and Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                further reduce the number
                                                                                                                                                                of structures at flood risk,
                                                                                                                                                                so these will be considered
                                                                                                                                                                going forward.
              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                  Floodplain maps are
              floodplain maps.                                                                                                                                  updated by the state and
                                                                                                Rockingham                                                      are updated by the
                                                            Flooding /
     P-3                                                                           High        County Planning         Federal, State               2025        County as needed.
                                                            Dam Failures
                                                                                                 and Zoning




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:82
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                              Completed and ongoing.
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                               Planning, Zoning and
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                Inspection will assess
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                    buildings as needed.
              inspected for flood related damage as
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                              There have been no
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                structures that have
              property. Plan for Damaged                                                                                                                        been submerged for a
              Structures:                                                                                                                                       lengthy time since
              1. Overall damage assessment/data                                                                                                                 2016.
                   collection (visual inspection from
                   roadways).                                                                   Rockingham
                                                           Flooding / Dam
     P-4      2. Data compiled and geographical                                    High        County Building              Local                   2025
                                                                Failures
                   areas assigned to teams.                                                      Inspections
              3. Second detailed assessment by
                   area teams.
              4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                   etc. that have been exposed to
                   water will be opened for
                   evaluation.
              5. All construction that is repaired,
                   replaced, dried or sealed will be
                   inspected before covered.
              6. Structure inspected for certificate
                   of compliance.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                              9:83
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                  The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                     implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                            related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                            the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                 method outlined. This
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                                                                                   action will continue to be
              necessary while collecting damage                                                 Rockingham                                                      implemented going
     P-5      assessment data; 3) conduct                          All             High        County Building              Local                   2025        forward as required when
              inspections on first come, first serve                                             Inspections                                                    utilities are damaged.
              basis; 4) work overtime to expedite
              utility reconnections.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:84
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative   Lead Agency/               Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority    Department             Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
                                                                                      Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             The county currently has a
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                               list of all repetitive loss
                                                                                                                                                                   properties, and this list is
                                                                                                Rockingham                                                         updated as needed.
                                                           Flooding / Dam                                                                         2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                                        Moderate       County Planning              Local
                                                                Failures                                                                       review and update
                                                                                                 and Zoning




                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Identify alternate Emergency                                                       Rockingham                                                        Primary EOC is
              Operations Center locations.                                                         County                                                          located at the
     ES-1                                                                          High                                     Local                    2025
                                                                   All                           Emergency                                                         Emergency Services
                                                                                                  Services                                                         Bldg. With the backup
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Ensure that the Public                                                                                                                               On an annual basis, the
              Information/County Engineer is                                                                                                                       County Engineer, or their
              informed of erosion and                                                                                                                              designee, makes numerous
              sedimentation control methods and                                                                                                                    site visits to assist property
              pushes this information out to the                                                                                                                   owners and developers
              public.                                                                                                                                              with problems and
                                                                                                                                                                   potential problems
                                                                                                Rockingham
                                                                                                                                                                   associated with drainage,
                                                                                                   County
                                                                                                                                                                   erosion, and flooding. Site
                                                                                                  Engineer,
                                                                                                                                                                   visits are made at the
                                                           Flooding / Dam                        Rockingham
    PEA-1                                                                          High                                     Local               2025, Annually     request of the property
                                                                Failures                       County Planning
                                                                                                                                                                   owner or developer and
                                                                                                 and Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                   are usually handled
                                                                                                                                                                   through the Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                   Zoning Department.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:85
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
City of Eden Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                                 Hazard Mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                        objectives are
              objectives.                                                                       Rockingham                                                         reviewed annually.
                                                                                               County Planning                                  2025, Reviewed
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate                                    Local
                                                                                               and Zoning, City                                    Annually
                                                                                                   of Eden


              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                                  Generally, there are
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                                  policies in place to
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                     minimize new structures
              floodplain areas.                                                                 Rockingham                                                         being located in the
                                                            Flooding /Dam                      County Planning                                                     floodplain. However,
     P-2                                                                        Moderate                                    Local              Reviewed Annually
                                                                Failures                       and Zoning, City                                                    additional regulations may
                                                                                                   of Eden                                                         further reduce the number
                                                                                                                                                                   of structures at flood risk,
                                                                                                                                                                   so these will be considered
                                                                                                                                                                   going forward.
              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                     Floodplain maps are
              floodplain maps.                                                                                                                                     updated by the state and
                                                                                                Rockingham
                                                                                                                                                                   are updated by the
                                                           Flooding/Dam                        County Planning
     P-3                                                                           High                                Federal, State                2025          County as needed.
                                                              Failures                         and Zoning, City
                                                                                                   of Eden




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                   9:86
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                              Completed and ongoing.
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                               Planning, Zoning and
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                Inspection will assess
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                    buildings as needed.
              inspected for flood related damage as
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                              There have been no
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                structures that have
              property. Plan for Damaged                                                                                                                        been submerged for a
              Structures:                                                                                                                                       lengthy time since
              1. Overall damage assessment/data                                                                                                                 2016.
                   collection (visual inspection from
                                                                                                 Rockingham
                   roadways).
                                                             Flooding /                        County Building
     P-4      2. Data compiled and geographical                                    High                                     Local                   2025
                                                             Dam Failures                      Inspections, City
                   areas assigned to teams.
                                                                                                   of Eden
              3. Second detailed assessment by
                   area teams.
              4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                   etc. that have been exposed to
                   water will be opened for
                   evaluation.
              5. All construction that is repaired,
                   replaced, dried or sealed will be
                   inspected before covered.
              6. Structure inspected for certificate
                   of compliance.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                              9:87
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                  The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                     implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                            related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                            the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                 method outlined. This
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                                                                                   action will continue to be
                                                                                                 Rockingham
              necessary while collecting damage                                                                                                                 implemented going
                                                                                               County Building
     P-5      assessment data; 3) conduct                          All             High                                     Local                   2025        forward as required when
                                                                                               Inspections, City
              inspections on first come, first serve                                                                                                            utilities are damaged.
                                                                                                   of Eden
              basis; 4) work overtime to expedite
              utility reconnections.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:88
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
  Action                                               Hazard(        Relati      Lead              Potential             Implementation             Implementation
                        Description
    #                                                 s)              ve           Agency/       Funding                     Schedule                 Status (2025)
                                                                                Property Protection
             Create and maintain a list of                                                                                                     The county currently has a list
             repetitive flood loss properties.                                                                                                 of all repetitive loss properties,
                                                                                                                                               and this list is updated as
                                                                               Rockingham
                                                                                                                                               needed.
                                                      Flooding                    County                                     2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                              Moderate                             Local
                                                      / Dam                    Planning and                               review and update
                                                      Failures                  Zoning, City
                                                                                  of Eden



             Identify alternate                                                      Rockingh                                                   Primary EOC is located at
             Emergency Operations                                                       am                                                      the Emergency Services
     ES-1                                                 All            High                              Local                  2025
             Center locations.                                                        County                                                    Bldg. With the backup
                                                                                     Emergen                                                    EOC being located at the
                                                                        Public Education and Awareness
             Ensure that the Public                                                                                                             The Rockingham County
             Information/County Engineer                                                                                                        Public Information/County
             is informed of erosion and                                                                                                         Engineer will make numerous
             sedimentation control                                                                                                              site visits to assist property
             methods and pushes this                                                                                                            owners and developers with
             information out to the public.                                                                                                     problems and potential
                                                                                   Rockingham                                                   problems associated with
                                                                                      County                                                    drainage, erosion, and
                                                                                       Public                                                   flooding. Site visits are made
                                                                                   Information/                                                 at the request of the property
                                                     Flooding /
    PEA-1                                                                High         County               Local            2025, Annually      owner or developer and are
                                                     Dam
                                                                                     Engineer,                                                  usually handled through the
                                                     Failures
                                                                                   Rockingham                                                   Planning and Zoning
                                                                                      County                                                    Department.
                                                                                   Planning and
                                                                                    Zoning, City
                                                                                      of Eden




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                   9:89
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Madison Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                                 Hazard Mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                        objectives are
                                                                                                Rockingham
              objectives.                                                                                                                                          reviewed annually.
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                                                                2025, Reviewed
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate         and Zoning,                Local
                                                                                                                                                   Annually
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                                                                  Madison


              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                                  Generally, there are
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                                  policies in place to
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                     minimize new structures
                                                                                                Rockingham
              floodplain areas.                                                                                                                                    being located in the
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                              Flooding /                                                                                           floodplain. However,
     P-2                                                                        Moderate         and Zoning,                Local              Reviewed Annually
                                                              Dam                                                                                                  additional regulations may
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                              Failures                                                                                             further reduce the number
                                                                                                  Madison
                                                                                                                                                                   of structures at flood risk,
                                                                                                                                                                   so these will be considered
                                                                                                                                                                   going forward.
              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                     Floodplain maps are
              floodplain maps.                                                                  Rockingham                                                         updated by the state and
                                                                                               County Planning                                                     are updated by the
                                                             Flooding /
     P-3                                                                           High          and Zoning,           Federal, State                2025          County as needed.
                                                             Dam Failures
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                                                                  Madison




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                   9:90
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                              Completed and ongoing.
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                               Planning, Zoning and
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                Inspection will assess
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                    buildings as needed.
              inspected for flood related damage as
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                              There have been no
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                structures that have
              property. Plan for Damaged                                                                                                                        been submerged for a
              Structures:                                                                                                                                       lengthy time since
              1. Overall damage assessment/data                                                                                                                 2016.
                   collection (visual inspection from                                           Rockingham
                   roadways).                                                                  County Building
                                                             Flooding /
     P-4      2. Data compiled and geographical                                    High         Inspections,                Local                   2025
                                                             Dam Failures
                   areas assigned to teams.                                                       Town of
              3. Second detailed assessment by                                                    Madison
                   area teams.
              4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                   etc. that have been exposed to
                   water will be opened for
                   evaluation.
              5. All construction that is repaired,
                   replaced, dried or sealed will be
                   inspected before covered.
              6. Structure inspected for certificate
                   of compliance.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                              9:91
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                  The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                     implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                            related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                            the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                 method outlined. This
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                   Rockingham                                                      action will continue to be
              necessary while collecting damage                                                County Building                                                  implemented going
     P-5      assessment data; 3) conduct                          All             High         Inspections,                Local                   2025        forward as required when
              inspections on first come, first serve                                              Town of                                                       utilities are damaged.
              basis; 4) work overtime to expedite                                                 Madison
              utility reconnections.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:92
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative   Lead Agency/               Potential               Implementation            Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority    Department             Funding Sources               Schedule                Status (2025)
                                                                                      Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             The county currently has a
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                               list of all repetitive loss
                                                                                                Rockingham                                                         properties, and this list is
                                                                                               County Planning                                                     updated as needed.
                                                              Flooding /                                                                          2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                                        Moderate         and Zoning,                Local
                                                              Dam                                                                              review and update
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                              Failures
                                                                                                  Madison




              Identify alternate Emergency                                                       Rockingham                                                         Primary EOC is
              Operations Center locations.                                                         County                                                           located at the
     ES-1                                                          All             High                                     Local                    2025
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                          Emergency Services
                                                                                                  Services                                                          Bldg. With the
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Ensure that the Public                                                                                                                                The Rockingham County
              Information/County Engineer is                                                                                                                        Public Information/County
              informed of erosion and                                                                                                                               Engineer will make
              sedimentation control methods and                                                                                                                     numerous site visits to
              pushes this information out to the                                                                                                                    assist property owners and
              public.                                                                                                                                               developers with problems
                                                                                                 Rockingham
                                                                                                                                                                    and potential problems
                                                                                                County Public
                                                                                                                                                                    associated with drainage,
                                                                                                Information/
                                                                                                                                                                    erosion, and flooding. Site
                                                                                                   County
                                                                                                                                                                    visits are made at the
                                                             Flooding /                           Engineer,
    PEA-1                                                                          High                                     Local               2025, Annually      request of the property
                                                             Dam Failures                        Rockingham
                                                                                                                                                                    owner or developer and
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                                                                                    are usually handled
                                                                                                 and Zoning,
                                                                                                                                                                    through the Planning and
                                                                                                   Town of
                                                                                                                                                                    Zoning Department.
                                                                                                  Madison
                                                                                                                                                                    .




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                     9:93
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Mayodan Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Hazard Mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives are
                                                                                                Rockingham
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       reviewed annually.
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                                                               2025, Reviewed
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate         and Zoning,                Local
                                                                                                                                                  Annually
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                                                                  Mayodan


              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Generally, there are
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               policies in place to
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  minimize new structures
                                                                                                Rockingham
              floodplain areas.                                                                                                                                 being located in the
                                                                                               County Planning                                 2025, Reviewed
                                                              Flooding /                                                                                        floodplain. However,
     P-2                                                                        Moderate         and Zoning,                Local                 Annually
                                                              Dam                                                                                               additional regulations may
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                              Failures                                                                                          further reduce the number
                                                                                                  Mayodan
                                                                                                                                                                of structures at flood risk,
                                                                                                                                                                so these will be considered
                                                                                                                                                                going forward.
              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                  Floodplain maps are
              floodplain maps.                                                                  Rockingham                                                      updated by the state and
                                                                                               County Planning                                                  are updated by the
                                                             Flooding /
     P-3                                                                           High          and Zoning,           Federal, State               2025        County as needed.
                                                             Dam Failures
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                                                                  Mayodan




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:94
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                              Completed and ongoing.
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                               Planning, Zoning and
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                Inspection will assess
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                    buildings as needed.
              inspected for flood related damage as
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                              There have been no
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                structures that have
              property. Plan for Damaged                                                                                                                        been submerged for a
              Structures:                                                                                                                                       lengthy time since
              1. Overall damage assessment/data                                                                                                                 before 2016.
                   collection (visual inspection from                                           Rockingham
                   roadways).                                                                  County Building
                                                             Flooding /
     P-4      2. Data compiled and geographical                                    High         Inspections,                Local                   2025
                                                             Dam Failures
                   areas assigned to teams.                                                       Town of
              3. Second detailed assessment by                                                   Mayodan
                   area teams.
              4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                   etc. that have been exposed to
                   water will be opened for
                   evaluation.
              5. All construction that is repaired,
                   replaced, dried or sealed will be
                   inspected before covered.
              6. Structure inspected for certificate
                   of compliance.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                              9:95
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                  The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                     implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                            related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                            the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                 method outlined. This
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                   Rockingham                                                      action will continue to be
              necessary while collecting damage                                                County Building                                                  implemented going
     P-5      assessment data; 3) conduct                          All             High         Inspections,                Local                   2025        forward as required when
              inspections on first come, first serve                                              Town of                                                       utilities are damaged.
              basis; 4) work overtime to expedite                                                Mayodan
              utility reconnections.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:96
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative   Lead Agency/               Potential               Implementation            Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority    Department             Funding Sources               Schedule                Status (2025)
                                                                                      Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             The county currently has a
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                               list of all repetitive loss
                                                                                                Rockingham                                                         properties, and this list is
                                                                                               County Planning                                                     updated as needed.
                                                              Flooding /                                                                       2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                                        Moderate         and Zoning,                Local
                                                              Dam                                                                              review and update
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                              Failures
                                                                                                  Mayodan




              Identify alternate Emergency                                                       Rockingham                                                         Primary EOC is
              Operations Center locations.                                                         County                                                           located at the
     ES-1                                                          All             High                                     Local                    2025
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                          Emergency Services
                                                                                                  Services                                                          Bldg. With the
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Ensure that the Public                                                                                                                                The Rockingham County
              Information/County Engineer is                                                                                                                        Public Information/County
              informed of erosion and                                                                                                                               Engineer will make
              sedimentation control methods and                                                                                                                     numerous site visits to
              pushes this information out to the                                                                                                                    assist property owners and
              public.                                                                                                                                               developers with problems
                                                                                                 Rockingham                                                         and potential problems
                                                                                                County Public                                                       associated with drainage,
                                                                                                Information/                                                        erosion, and flooding. Site
                                                                                                   County                                                           visits are made at the
                                                             Flooding /                           Engineer,                                                         request of the property
    PEA-1                                                                          High                                     Local               2025, Annually
                                                             Dam Failures                        Rockingham                                                         owner or developer and
                                                                                               County Planning                                                      are usually handled
                                                                                                 and Zoning,                                                        through the Planning and
                                                                                                   Town of                                                          Zoning Department.
                                                                                                  Mayodan




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                     9:97
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
City of Reidsville Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Hazard Mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives are
              objectives.                                                                       Rockingham                                                      reviewed annually.
                                                                                               County Planning                                 2025, Reviewed
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate                                    Local
                                                                                               and Zoning, City                                   Annually
                                                                                                 of Reidsville


              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Generally, there are
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               policies in place to
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  minimize new structures
              floodplain areas.                                                                 Rockingham                                                      being located in the
                                                              Flooding /                       County Planning                                 2025, Reviewed   floodplain. However,
     P-2                                                                        Moderate                                    Local                 Annually
                                                              Dam                              and Zoning, City                                                 additional regulations may
                                                              Failures                           of Reidsville                                                  further reduce the number
                                                                                                                                                                of structures at flood risk,
                                                                                                                                                                so these will be considered
                                                                                                                                                                going forward.
              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                  Floodplain maps are
              floodplain maps.                                                                                                                                  updated by the state and
                                                                                                Rockingham
                                                                                                                                                                are updated by the
                                                             Flooding /                        County Planning
     P-3                                                                           High                                Federal, State               2025        County as needed.
                                                             Dam Failures                      and Zoning, City
                                                                                                 of Reidsville




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:98
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                              Completed and ongoing.
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                               Planning, Zoning and
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                Inspection will assess
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                    buildings as needed.
              inspected for flood related damage as
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                              There have been no
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                structures that have
              property. Plan for Damaged                                                                                                                        been submerged for a
              Structures:                                                                                                                                       lengthy time since
               1. Overall damage assessment/data                                                                                                                before 2016.
                   collection (visual inspection from
                                                                                                 Rockingham
                   roadways).
                                                             Flooding /                        County Building
     P-4       2. Data compiled and geographical                                   High                                     Local                   2025
                                                             Dam Failures                      Inspections, City
                   areas assigned to teams.
                                                                                                 of Reidsville
               3. Second detailed assessment by
                   area teams.
               4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                   etc. that have been exposed to
                   water will be opened for
                   evaluation.
               5. All construction that is repaired,
                   replaced, dried or sealed will be
                   inspected before covered.
               6. Structure inspected for certificate
                   of compliance.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                              9:99
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                  The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                     implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                            related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                            the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                 method outlined. This
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                                                                                   action will continue to be
                                                                                                 Rockingham
              necessary while collecting damage                                                                                                                 implemented going
                                                                                               County Building
     P-5      assessment data; 3) conduct                          All             High                                     Local                   2025        forward as required when
                                                                                               Inspections, City
              inspections on first come, first serve                                                                                                            utilities are damaged.
                                                                                                 of Reidsville
              basis; 4) work overtime to expedite
              utility reconnections.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:100
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative   Lead Agency/               Potential               Implementation            Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority    Department             Funding Sources               Schedule                Status (2025)
                                                                                      Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             The county currently has a
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                               list of all repetitive loss
                                                                                                                                                                   properties, and this list is
                                                                                                Rockingham
                                                                                                                                                                   updated as needed.
                                                              Flooding /                       County Planning                                    2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                                        Moderate                                    Local
                                                              Dam                              and Zoning, City                                review and update
                                                              Failures                           of Reidsville




              Identify alternate Emergency                                                       Rockingham                                                         Primary EOC is
              Operations Center locations.                                                         County                                                           located at the
     ES-1                                                          All             High                                     Local                   20255
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                          Emergency Services
                                                                                                  Services                                                          Bldg. With the
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Ensure that the Public                                                                                                                                The Rockingham County
              Information/County Engineer is                                                                                                                        Public Information/County
              informed of erosion and                                                                                                                               Engineer will make
              sedimentation control methods and                                                                                                                     numerous site visits to
              pushes this information out to the                                                                                                                    assist property owners and
              public.                                                                                                                                               developers with problems
                                                                                                                                                                    and potential problems
                                                                                                 Rockingham
                                                                                                                                                                    associated with drainage,
                                                                                                County Public
                                                                                                                                                                    erosion, and flooding. Site
                                                                                                Information/
                                                                                                                                                                    visits are made at the
                                                                                                    County
                                                             Flooding /                                                                                             request of the property
    PEA-1                                                                          High           Engineer,                 Local               2025, Annually
                                                             Dam Failures                                                                                           owner or developer and
                                                                                                 Rockingham
                                                                                                                                                                    are usually handled
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                                                                                    through the Planning and
                                                                                               and Zoning, City
                                                                                                                                                                    Zoning Department.
                                                                                                 of Reidsville




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                     9:101
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Stoneville Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Hazard Mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives are
                                                                                                Rockingham
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       reviewed annually.
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                                                               2025, Reviewed
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate         and Zoning,                Local
                                                                                                                                                  Annually
                                                                                                   Town of
                                                                                                  Stoneville


              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Generally, there are
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               policies in place to
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  minimize new structures
                                                                                                Rockingham
              floodplain areas.                                                                                                                                 being located in the
                                                                                               County Planning                                 2025, Reviewed
                                                              Flooding /                                                                                        floodplain. However,
     P-2                                                                        Moderate         and Zoning,                Local                 Annually
                                                              Dam                                                                                               additional regulations may
                                                                                                   Town of
                                                              Failures                                                                                          further reduce the number
                                                                                                  Stoneville
                                                                                                                                                                of structures at flood risk,
                                                                                                                                                                so these will be considered
                                                                                                                                                                going forward.
              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                  Floodplain maps are
              floodplain maps.                                                                  Rockingham                                                      updated by the state and
                                                                                               County Planning                                                  are updated by the
                                                             Flooding /
     P-3                                                                           High          and Zoning,           Federal, State               2025        County as needed.
                                                             Dam Failures
                                                                                                   Town of
                                                                                                  Stoneville




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:102
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                              Completed and ongoing.
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                               Planning, Zoning and
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                Inspection will assess
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                    buildings as needed.
              inspected for flood related damage as
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                              There have been no
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                structures that have
              property. Plan for Damaged                                                                                                                        been submerged for a
              Structures:                                                                                                                                       lengthy time since
               1. Overall damage assessment/data                                                                                                                before 2016.
                   collection (visual inspection from                                           Rockingham
                   roadways).                                                                  County Building
                                                             Flooding /
     P-4       2. Data compiled and geographical                                   High         Inspections,                Local                   2025
                                                             Dam Failures
                   areas assigned to teams.                                                       Town of
               3. Second detailed assessment by                                                  Stoneville
                   area teams.
               4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                   etc. that have been exposed to
                   water will be opened for
                   evaluation.
               5. All construction that is repaired,
                   replaced, dried or sealed will be
                   inspected before covered.
               6. Structure inspected for certificate
                   of compliance.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                              9:103
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                  The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                     implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                            related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                            the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                 method outlined. This
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                   Rockingham                                                      action will continue to be
              necessary while collecting damage                                                County Building                                                  implemented going
     P-5      assessment data; 3) conduct                          All             High         Inspections,                Local                   2025        forward as required when
              inspections on first come, first serve                                              Town of                                                       utilities are damaged.
              basis; 4) work overtime to expedite                                                Stoneville
              utility reconnections.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:104
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative   Lead Agency/               Potential               Implementation            Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority    Department             Funding Sources               Schedule                Status (2025)
                                                                                      Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             The county currently has a
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                               list of all repetitive loss
                                                                                                Rockingham                                                         properties, and this list is
                                                                                               County Planning                                                     updated as needed.
                                                              Flooding /                                                                          2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                                        Moderate         and Zoning,                Local
                                                              Dam                                                                              review and update
                                                                                                   Town of
                                                              Failures
                                                                                                  Stoneville




              Identify alternate Emergency                                                                                                                          Primary EOC is
              Operations Center locations.                                                                                                                          located at the
                                                                                                                                                                    Emergency Services
                                                                                                 Rockingham
                                                                                                                                                                    Bldg. With the
                                                                                                   County
     ES-1                                                          All             High                                     Local                    2025           backup EOC being
                                                                                                 Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                    located at the 9-1-1
                                                                                                  Services
                                                                                                                                                                    Center.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                     9:105
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)         Relative    Lead Agency/      Potential                        Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed         Priority     Department    Funding Sources                        Schedule            Status (2025)
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Ensure that the Public                                                                                                                             The Rockingham County
              Information/County Engineer is                                                                                                                     Public Information/County
              informed of erosion and                                                                                                                            Engineer will make
              sedimentation control methods and                                                                                                                  numerous site visits to
              pushes this information out to the                                                                                                                 assist property owners and
              public.                                                                                                                                            developers with problems
                                                                                                 Rockingham
                                                                                                                                                                 and potential problems
                                                                                                County Public
                                                                                                                                                                 associated with drainage,
                                                                                                Information/
                                                                                                                                                                 erosion, and flooding. Site
                                                                                                   County
                                                                                                                                                                 visits are made at the
                                                             Flooding /                           Engineer,
    PEA-1                                                                          High                                     Local               2025, Annually   request of the property
                                                             Dam Failures                        Rockingham
                                                                                                                                                                 owner or developer and
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                                                                                 are usually handled
                                                                                                 and Zoning,
                                                                                                                                                                 through the Planning and
                                                                                                   Town of
                                                                                                                                                                 Zoning Department.
                                                                                                  Stoneville




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:106
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Wentworth Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Hazard Mitigation
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     objectives are
                                                                                                Rockingham
              objectives.                                                                                                                                       reviewed annually.
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                                                               2025, Reviewed
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate         and Zoning,                Local
                                                                                                                                                  Annually
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                                                                 Wentworth


              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Generally, there are
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               policies in place to
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  minimize new structures
                                                                                                Rockingham
              floodplain areas.                                                                                                                                 being located in the
                                                                                               County Planning                                 2025, Reviewed
                                                              Flooding /                                                                                        floodplain. However,
     P-2                                                                        Moderate         and Zoning,                Local                 Annually
                                                              Dam                                                                                               additional regulations may
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                              Failures                                                                                          further reduce the number
                                                                                                 Wentworth
                                                                                                                                                                of structures at flood risk,
                                                                                                                                                                so these will be considered
                                                                                                                                                                going forward.
              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                  Floodplain maps are
              floodplain maps.                                                                  Rockingham                                                      updated by the state and
                                                                                               County Planning                                                  are updated by the
                                                             Flooding /
     P-3                                                                           High          and Zoning,           Federal, State               2025        County as needed.
                                                             Dam Failures
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                                                                 Wentworth




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:107
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                              Completed and ongoing.
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                               Planning, Zoning and
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                Inspection will assess
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                    buildings as needed.
              inspected for flood related damage as
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                              There have been no
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                structures that have
              property. Plan for Damaged                                                                                                                        been submerged for a
              Structures:                                                                                                                                       lengthy time since
               1. Overall damage assessment/data                                                                                                                before 2016.
                   collection (visual inspection from                                           Rockingham
                   roadways).                                                                  County Building
                                                             Flooding /
     P-4       2. Data compiled and geographical                                   High         Inspections,                Local                   2025
                                                             Dam Failures
                   areas assigned to teams.                                                       Town of
               3. Second detailed assessment by                                                  Wentworth
                   area teams.
               4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                   etc. that have been exposed to
                   water will be opened for
                   evaluation.
               5. All construction that is repaired,
                   replaced, dried or sealed will be
                   inspected before covered.
               6. Structure inspected for certificate
                   of compliance.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                              9:108
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation            Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule                Status (2025)
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                      The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                         implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                                related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                                the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                     method outlined. This
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                   Rockingham                                                          action will continue to be
              necessary while collecting damage                                                County Building                                                      implemented going
     P-5      assessment data; 3) conduct                          All             High         Inspections,                Local                    2025           forward as required when
              inspections on first come, first serve                                              Town of                                                           utilities are damaged.
              basis; 4) work overtime to expedite                                                Wentworth
              utility reconnections.




                                                                                       Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             The county currently has a
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                               list of all repetitive loss
                                                                                                Rockingham                                                         properties, and this list is
                                                                                               County Planning                                                     updated as needed.
                                                              Flooding /                                                                          2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                                        Moderate         and Zoning,                Local
                                                              Dam                                                                              review and update
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                              Failures
                                                                                                 Wentworth




              Identify alternate Emergency                                                       Rockingham                                                         Primary EOC is
              Operations Center locations.                                                         County                                                           located at the
    ES-1                                                           All             High                                     Local                    2025
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                          Emergency Services
                                                                                                  Services                                                          Bldg. With the
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                     9:109
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule            Status (2025)
              Ensure that the Public                                                                                                                             The Rockingham County
              Information/County Engineer is                                                                                                                     Public Information/County
              informed of erosion and                                                                                                                            Engineer will make
              sedimentation control methods and                                                                                                                  numerous site visits to
              pushes this information out to the                                                                                                                 assist property owners and
              public.                                                                                                                                            developers with problems
                                                                                                 Rockingham
                                                                                                                                                                 and potential problems
                                                                                                County Public
                                                                                                                                                                 associated with drainage,
                                                                                                Information/
                                                                                                                                                                 erosion, and flooding. Site
                                                                                                   County
                                                                                                                                                                 visits are made at the
                                                             Flooding /                           Engineer,
    PEA-1                                                                          High                                     Local               2025, Annually   request of the property
                                                             Dam Failures                        Rockingham
                                                                                                                                                                 owner or developer and
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                                                                                 are usually handled
                                                                                                 and Zoning,
                                                                                                                                                                 through the Planning and
                                                                                                   Town of
                                                                                                                                                                 Zoning Department.
                                                                                                 Wentworth




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:110
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Stokes County Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              Review and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                              Although some mitigation-
              objectives that are applicable into                                                                                                               related objectives have
              zoning ordinances.                                                                Stokes County                                                   been included in the
                                                                                                 Planning and                                                   zoning ordinance, there
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate                                    Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Community                                                      are still additional
                                                                                                Development                                                     improvements that can be
                                                                                                                                                                made during the next
                                                                                                                                                                ordinance update.
              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               The county discourages
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               development in the 100-
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  year floodplain and
                                                                                                Stokes County
              floodplain areas.                                                                                                                                 therefore discourages
                                                                                                 Planning and
     P-2                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                   2025        public infrastructure
                                                                                                 Community
                                                                                                                                                                improvements in those
                                                                                                Development
                                                                                                                                                                areas as well. The county
                                                                                                                                                                will work to develop this
                                                                                                                                                                policy going forward.
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                            We currently have a GIS
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                  Stokes County                                                   link on the county website
              staff and public use.                                                             Geographical
     P-5                                                           All             High                                     Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Information
                                                                                                    System

                                                                                       Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                          During the update of this
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                            plan, the county compiled
                                                                                                                                                                a list of repetitive loss
                                                                                                Stokes County
                                                                                                                                                                properties. County staff
                                                                                                 Planning and                                    2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                               will perform annual
                                                                                                 Community                                        Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                evaluations of properties
                                                                                                Development
                                                                                                                                                                to ensure that it is working
                                                                                                                                                                to mitigate any repetitive
                                                                                                                                                                loss properties.
                                                                                       Emergency Services




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:111
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Ensure adequate evacuation warning                                                                                                                Code Red warning system
              in case of major hazard event.                                                                                                                    in place

                                                                                                Stokes County
                                                                                                                                                 2025, Annual
     ES-1                                                          All             High          Emergency                  Local
                                                                                                                                                  Evaluation
                                                                                                   Services



              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                   We currently have shelter
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                                                                                     sites in the county that
                                                                                                                                                                have generator back up
                                                                                                                                                                and this year will be adding
                                                                                                Stokes County
                                                                                                                                                                2 additional shelters with
     ES-2                                                          All             High          Emergency                  Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                generator back up in King,
                                                                                                   Services
                                                                                                                                                                Danbury




                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                  In the past, hazard
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                 education materials have
              branches of the Stokes County public                                                                                                              been placed in all branches
              library system.                                                                   Stokes County                                                   of the Stokes County public
                                                                                                 Planning and                                                   library system.
    PEA-1                                                          All             High                                     Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Community                                                      However, these materials
                                                                                                Development                                                     will need to be reviewed
                                                                                                                                                                and updated, so this
                                                                                                                                                                action will remain in the
                                                                                                                                                                plan.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:112
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Danbury Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              Review and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                              Although some mitigation-
              objectives that are applicable into                                                                                                               related objectives have
              zoning ordinances.                                                                  Town of                                                       been included in the
                                                                                                Danbury Land                                                    zoning ordinance, there
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate                                    Local                   2025
                                                                                                    Use                                                         are still additional
                                                                                                Administrator                                                   improvements that can be
                                                                                                                                                                made during the next
                                                                                                                                                                ordinance update.
              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Thus far, the county has
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               not developed a policy to
              that will be located in 100-year                                                    Town of                                                       minimize public services to
              floodplain areas.                                                                 Danbury Land                                                    new structures that will be
     P-2                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                   2025
                                                                                                    Use                                                         located in the floodplain.
                                                                                                Administrator                                                   The county will work to
                                                                                                                                                                develop this policy going
                                                                                                                                                                forward.
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                            County website has GIS link
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                  Stokes County
              staff and public use.                                                             Geographical
     P-5                                                           All             High                                     Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Information
                                                                                                    System

                                                                                       Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                          During the update of this
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                            plan, the county compiled
                                                                                                                                                                a list of repetitive loss
                                                                                                Stokes County
                                                                                                                                                                properties. County staff
                                                                                                 Planning and                                    2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                               will perform annual
                                                                                                 Community                                        Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                evaluations of properties
                                                                                                Development
                                                                                                                                                                to ensure that it is working
                                                                                                                                                                to mitigate any repetitive
                                                                                                                                                                loss properties.
                                                                                       Emergency Services




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:113
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Ensure adequate evaluation warning                                                                                                                Code Red warning system
              in case of major hazard event.                                                                                                                    in place

                                                                                                Stokes County
                                                                                                                                                 2025, Annual
     ES-1                                                          All             High          Emergency                  Local
                                                                                                                                                  Evaluation
                                                                                                   Services



              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                   New shelter will be
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                                                                                     available in Danbury this
                                                                                                                                                                year by the end of 2019
                                                                                                Stokes County
     ES-2                                                          All             High          Emergency                  Local                   2025
                                                                                                   Services




                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                  In the past, hazard
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                 education materials have
              branches of the Stokes County public                                                                                                              been placed in all branches
                                                                                                Stokes County
              library system.                                                                                                                                   of the Stokes County
                                                                                                 Planning and
    PEA-1                                                          All             High                                     Local                   2025        public library system.
                                                                                                 Community
                                                                                                                                                                However, these materials
                                                                                                Development
                                                                                                                                                                will need to be reviewed
                                                                                                                                                                and updated, so this action
                                                                                                                                                                will remain in the plan.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:114
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
City of King Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              Review and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                              Although some mitigation-
              objectives that are applicable into                                                                                                               related objectives have
              zoning ordinances.                                                                                                                                been included in the
                                                                                                 City of King
                                                                                                                                                                zoning ordinance, there
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate          Planning                  Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                are still additional
                                                                                                 Department
                                                                                                                                                                improvements that can be
                                                                                                                                                                made during the next
                                                                                                                                                                ordinance update.
              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Thus far, the county has
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               not developed a policy to
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  minimize public services to
                                                                                                 City of King
              floodplain areas.                                                                                                                                 new structures that will be
     P-2                                                        Flooding        Moderate          Planning                  Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                located in the floodplain.
                                                                                                 Department
                                                                                                                                                                The county will work to
                                                                                                                                                                develop this policy going
                                                                                                                                                                forward.
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                            County website has GIS link
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                  Stokes County
              staff and public use.                                                             Geographical
     P-5                                                           All             High                                     Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Information
                                                                                                    System

                                                                                       Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                          During the update of this
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                            plan, the county compiled
                                                                                                                                                                a list of repetitive loss
                                                                                                 City of King                                                   properties. County staff
                                                                                                                                                 2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                        Flooding        Moderate          Planning                  Local                               will perform annual
                                                                                                                                                  Evaluation
                                                                                                 Department                                                     evaluations of properties
                                                                                                                                                                to ensure that it is working
                                                                                                                                                                to mitigate any repetitive
                                                                                                                                                                loss properties.
                                                                                       Emergency Services




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:115
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Ensure adequate evaluation warning                                                                                                                Code Red warning system
              in case of major hazard event.                                                                                                                    in place

                                                                                                Stokes County
                                                                                                                                                 2025, Annual
     ES-1                                                          All             High          Emergency                  Local
                                                                                                                                                  Evaluation
                                                                                                   Services



              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                   Adding a shelter in King by
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                                                                                     the end of 2019


                                                                                                Stokes County
     ES-2                                                          All             High          Emergency                  Local                   2025
                                                                                                   Services




                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                  In the past, hazard
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                 education materials have
              branches of the Stokes County public                                                                                                              been placed in all branches
              library system.                                                                                                                                   of the Stokes County
                                                                                                 City of King
                                                                                                                                                                public library system.
    PEA-1                                                          All             High           Planning                  Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                However, these materials
                                                                                                 Department
                                                                                                                                                                will need to be reviewed
                                                                                                                                                                and updated, so this
                                                                                                                                                                action will remain in the
                                                                                                                                                                plan.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:116
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Walnut Cove Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule            Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              Review and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                              Although some mitigation-
              objectives that are applicable into                                                                                                               related objectives have
              zoning ordinances.                                                                                                                                been included in the
                                                                                               Town of Walnut
                                                                                                                                                                zoning ordinance, there
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate         Cove Town                  Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                are still additional
                                                                                                  Manager
                                                                                                                                                                improvements that can be
                                                                                                                                                                made during the next
                                                                                                                                                                ordinance update.
              Develop a policy to minimize public                                                                                                               Thus far, the county has
              services to proposed new structures                                                                                                               not developed a policy to
              that will be located in 100-year                                                                                                                  minimize public services to
                                                                                               Town of Walnut
              floodplain areas.                                                                                                                                 new structures that will be
     P-2                                                        Flooding        Moderate         Cove Town                  Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                located in the floodplain.
                                                                                                  Manager
                                                                                                                                                                The county will work to
                                                                                                                                                                develop this policy going
                                                                                                                                                                forward.
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                            County website has GIS link
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                  Stokes County
              staff and public use.                                                             Geographical
     P-5                                                           All             High                                     Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Information
                                                                                                    System

                                                                                       Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                          During the update of this
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                            plan, the county compiled
                                                                                                                                                                a list of repetitive loss
                                                                Flooding                       Town of Walnut                                                   properties. County staff
                                                                                                                                                 2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                                        Moderate         Cove Town                  Local                               will perform annual
                                                                                                                                                  Evaluation
                                                                                                  Manager                                                       evaluations of properties
                                                                                                                                                                to ensure that it is working
                                                                                                                                                                to mitigate any repetitive
                                                                                                                                                                loss properties.
                                                                                       Emergency Services




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:117
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule            Status (2025)
              Ensure adequate evaluation warning                                                                                                                Code Red warning system
              in case of major hazard event.                                                                                                                    in place

                                                                                                Stokes County
                                                                                                                                                 2025, Annual
     ES-1                                                          All             High          Emergency                  Local
                                                                                                                                                  Evaluation
                                                                                                   Services



              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                   Adding a shelter in King
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                                                                                     and Danbury to the
                                                                                                                                                                additional shelter locations
                                                                                                                                                                in the county
                                                                                                Stokes County
     ES-2                                                          All             High          Emergency                  Local                   2025
                                                                                                   Services




                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                  In the past, hazard
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                 education materials have
              branches of the Stokes County public                                                                                                              been placed in all branches
              library system.                                                                                                                                   of the Stokes County
                                                                                               Town of Walnut
                                                                                                                                                                public library system.
    PEA-1                                                          All             High          Cove Town                  Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                However, these materials
                                                                                                  Manager
                                                                                                                                                                will need to be reviewed
                                                                                                                                                                and updated, so this
                                                                                                                                                                action will remain in the
                                                                                                                                                                plan.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:118
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Surry County Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                    Hazard(s)           Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                       Addressed           Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule            Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              Consider a community ratings system                                                                                                                The county does not
              evaluation to continue compliance                                                                                                                  currently participate in the
              with NFIP.                                                                                                                                         CRS, but it will continue to
                                                                                                 Surry County          Surry County
                                                              Flooding,                                                                         2025, Annually   consider pursuing this,
     P-1                                                                        Moderate          Emergency             Emergency
                                                              Geological                                                                           review        especially as it implements
                                                                                                 Management            Management
                                                              Hazards                                                                                            floodplain management
                                                              (Landslides)                                                                                       actions that will contribute
                                                                                                                                                                 to points in the CRS.
              Develop a comprehensive Capital                                                                                                                    The county has not yet
              Improvements Plan.                                                                                                                                 developed a
                                                                                                                                                                 comprehensive CIP,
                                                                                                Surry County           Surry County                              although it has undertaken
     P-2                                                           All             High         Planning and           Planning and                 2025         some capital projects. The
                                                                                                Development            Development                               county will continue to
                                                                                                                                                                 work to develop a
                                                                                                                                                                 comprehensive CIP going
                                                                                                                                                                 forward.
              Adopt a Storm Water Management                                                                                                                     The county has not yet
                                                              Flooding,
              Ordinance or Plan                                                                                        Surry County                              adopted a Stormwater
                                                              Geological                       Board of County
     P-3                                                                           High                                Planning and                 2025         Management Ordinance or
                                                              Hazards                          Commissioners
                                                                                                                       Development                               Plan. This will continue to
                                                              (Landslides)
                                                                                                                                                                 be a goal in the future.
              Require that structural features are                                                                                                               The county has attempted
              manufactured and installed in such a                                                                                                               to identify structures that
              way that the hazardous effect of               Tornadoes/                                                                                          are constructed in a way
              wind- b o r n e debris is limited.            Thunderstorms,                                                                                       that contributes to wind
                                                             Hurricane and                       Surry County          Surry County
                                                                                                                                                                 borne debris. Although
     P-5                                                        Coastal     Moderate                Building           Planning and                 2025
                                                                                                                                                                 many cases have been
                                                            Hazards, Severe                       Inspections          Development
                                                                                                                                                                 identified and rectified,
                                                            Winter Weather                                                                                       there is still significant
                                                                                                                                                                 work to be completed on
                                                                                                                                                                 this action.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:119
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                    Hazard(s)           Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                       Addressed           Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Develop a wildfire management plan                                                                                                                A wildfire management
              including clear objectives. The plan                                              NCDFR, USFS,                                                    plan is in progress of being
                                                                                                                       NCDFR, USFS,
              should include degree of fire risk and                                            Surry County                                                    developed but the plan is
     P-6                                                        Wildfires       Moderate                             Surry County Fire              2025
              wildfire history of county.                                                       Fire Marshal’s                                                  not complete, so
                                                                                                                     Marshal’s Office
                                                                                                    Office                                                      additional work will need
                                                                                                                                                                to be completed.
              Make available all necessary                                                                                                                      Although many resources
              resources for fire management                                                                                                                     are available for fire
              planning at all levels.                                                            Surry County                                                   management planning,
                                                                                                                        Local, State,
     P-7                                                        Wildfires       Moderate          Emergency                                         2025        additional resources would
                                                                                                                          Federal
                                                                                                 Management                                                     be useful and an ongoing
                                                                                                                                                                task will be to pursue more
                                                                                                                                                                resources.
                                                                                      Property Protection
              Encourage low-interest loans to                                                                                                                   The county has
              farmers from the State to assist with                                                                                                             encouraged low interest
              the effects of a drought.                                                                                                                         loans from the state and
                                                                                               Board of County         Surry County
    PP-1                                                        Drought            Low                                                              2025        will continue to advocate
                                                                                               Commissioners           Government
                                                                                                                                                                for those to be available
                                                                                                                                                                during/after a drought
                                                                                                                                                                event.
              Address properties that are vulnerable                                            Surry County                                                    The county will continue to
              to flood damage, especially those that           Flooding,                        Planning and                                                    attempt to implement
              are repetitive loss properties to               Geological                        Development,            Local, State,                           mitigation action for
    PP-2                                                                           High                                                             2025
              continue compliance with NFIP.                    Hazards                         Surry County              Federal                               repetitive loss properties
                                                             (Landslides)                         Parks and                                                     and other high risk
                                                                                                 Recreation                                                     properties.
              Review of public and private services                                                                                                             Generally, the county
              for improvements while relocating                                                                                                                 has worked to relocate
              infrastructure away from flood prone                                                                                                              infrastructure away from
              areas.                                            Flooding,                                                                                       flood prone areas.
                                                                                                Surry County
                                                               Geological                                                                                       However, there are still
    PP-3                                                                           High         Planning and                Local                   2025
                                                                 Hazards                                                                                        areas where infrastructure
                                                                                                Development
                                                              (Landslides)                                                                                      is located in flood prone
                                                                                                                                                                areas and the county will
                                                                                                                                                                work to address those
                                                                                                                                                                areas.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:120
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                    Hazard(s)           Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                       Addressed           Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Ensure manufactured homes are                                                                                                                     The county performs
              property installed and secured.                                                                                                                   inspections on
                                                                                                 Surry County          Surry County                             manufactured homes to
    PP-4                                                                        Moderate            Building           Planning and                 2025        ensure they are properly
                                                                                                  Inspections          Development                              installed. This action will
                                                                                                                                                                need to be continued
                                                                                                                                                                going forward.


              Ensure all residential construction                                                                                                               The county is working to
              conforms with latest wind-resistance           Tornadoes/                                                                                         ensure that all residential
              standards.                                   Thunderstorms,                                                                                       construction is consistent
                                                            Hurricane and                                                                                       with the latest wind
                                                                                                 Surry County          Surry County
                                                               Coastal                                                                                          standards. County officials
    PP-5                                                                        Moderate            Building           Planning and                 2025
                                                               Hazards,                                                                                         will continue to identify
                                                                                                  Inspections          Development
                                                            Severe Winter                                                                                       structures that are in non-
                                                              Weather                                                                                           conformance and work
                                                                                                                                                                with citizens to ensure
                                                                                                                                                                compliance.
              Retrofit emergency operations                                                                                                                     Some critical facilities have
              centers and critical facilities.                                                                                                                  been retrofitted to protect
                                                                                                                                                                against hazards, but many
    PP-6                                                           All             High          Surry County          Surry County                 2025
                                                                                                                                                                critical facilities remain
                                                                                                                                                                unmitigated and will need
                                                                                                                                                                to be addressed.
                                                                                      Emergency Services
              Coordinate efforts in regards to                                                 NC Cooperative                                                   The county has
              equipment and manpower to unload                                                 Extension, Surry                                                 coordinated efforts on
                                                                                                                      NC Cooperative
     ES-1     hay and other agriculture products                Drought         Moderate           County                                           2025        equipment in the past and
                                                                                                                        Extension
              delivered by aircraft, trucks, and                                                 Emergency                                                      will continue that effort in
              trains.                                                                           Management                                                      the event of a drought.
              Procure water trailers for                                                        Surry County           Surry County                             In the past, water trailers
              communities with dry or                                                            Emergency              Emergency                               were procured when
              contaminated wells.                                                               Management,            Management,                              needed to address
     ES-2                                                       Drought         Moderate                                                            2025
                                                                                                Surry County           Surry County                             dry/contaminate wells.
                                                                                                 Health and             Health and                              This will continue to be the
                                                                                                  Nutrition              Nutrition                              case going forward.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:121
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                    Hazard(s)           Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                       Addressed           Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Decrease the time for evacuation.                                                                                                                 The county has attempted
                                                                                                Surry County
                                                                                                                      Surry County                              to decrease evacuation
                                                                                                 Emergency
                                                                                                                       Emergency                                times in the past, but this
     ES-3                                                          All             High         Management,                                         2025
                                                                                                                    Management, Law                             is an effort that will
                                                                                                    Law
                                                                                                                      Enforcement                               continue to be pursued to
                                                                                                Enforcement
                                                                                                                                                                reduce times even further.
              Improve areas where evacuation may                                                                                                                The county has taken
              be impeded.                                                                                                                                       action in some locations
                                                                                                                                                                where bottlenecks might
                                                                                                Surry County
                                                                                                                                                                occur and has worked to
                                                                                                 Emergency             Surry County
                                                                                                                                                                develop a plan to keep
     ES-4                                                          All             High         Management,             Emergency                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                evacuation moving
                                                                                                    Law                Management
                                                                                                                                                                smoothly. However, as in
                                                                                                Enforcement
                                                                                                                                                                E-3, the county will
                                                                                                                                                                continue to try to reduce
                                                                                                                                                                its evacuation times.
              Coordinate early warning flash flood                                                                                                              The county has worked
              systems with Virginia counties that                                                                                                               with upstream VA counties
              are upstream of County tributaries.                                                                                                               to provide advanced flash
                                                                                                                       Surry County
                                                                                                 Surry County                                                   flood warnings. Continued
                                                                                                                        Emergency
     ES-5                                                          All          Moderate          Emergency                                         2025        coordination will be
                                                                                                                       Management,
                                                                                                 Management                                                     required on this and the
                                                                                                                         NCDEM
                                                                                                                                                                county will work to
                                                                                                                                                                improve warning systems
                                                                                                                                                                overall.
              Make sure that all community                                                                                                                      The county regularly
              warning sirens and warning systems                                                                                                                inspects all warning sirens
              are in proper working condition.                                                   Surry County          Surry County                             and systems to ensure
     ES-6                                                          All             High           Emergency             Emergency                   2025        they will be ready for a
                                                                                                 Management            Management                               disaster event. The city will
                                                                                                                                                                continue inspect these
                                                                                                                                                                systems going forward.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:122
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                    Hazard(s)           Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                       Addressed           Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Communicate with other                                                                                                                               The county has taken the
              cities/counties to facilitate emergency                                                                                                              lead in the past to
              response and recovery.                                                                                                                               coordinate on response
                                                                                                 Surry County          Surry County                                and recovery activities
     ES-7                                                          All          Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                    2025          with municipalities and it is
                                                                                                 Management            Management                                  in constant coordination
                                                                                                                                                                   with other counties. This
                                                                                                                                                                   will continue to be a
                                                                                                                                                                   priority in the future.
              Train fire fighters with the latest fire                                                                                                             Although firefighters have
              fighting techniques and equip them                                                                                                                   been well trained and
              with the most up to date equipment.                                                Surry County                                                      equipped in the past, there
     ES-8                                                       Wildfires       Moderate        Fire Marshal’s              Local                    2025          is a constant need for
                                                                                                Office, NCDFR                                                      additional training and
                                                                                                                                                                   resources, so this will be
                                                                                                                                                                   pursued going forward.
              Establish a housing numbering system                                                                                                                 The county completed its
              and ensure that the numbers are                                                                                                                      re-addressing in 2000 but
                                                                                                 Surry County          Surry County
              visible from the road.                                                                                                              2025, Annual     it will need to be updated
     ES-9                                                       Wildfires          Low            Emergency             Emergency
                                                                                                                                               review and update   on a consistent basis and
                                                                                                 Management            Management
                                                                                                                                                                   re-evaluated for an update
                                                                                                                                                                   in the future.
              Coordinate responses between each                                                                                                                    The county has
              of the county’s fire departments.                                                                                                                    coordinated response
                                                                                                Surry County                                                       within each of its fire
                                                                                                                     Surry County Fire
    ES-10                                                       Wildfires       Moderate        Fire Marshal’s                                       2025          departments and will
                                                                                                                      Marshal’s Office
                                                                                                    Office                                                         continue to ensure
                                                                                                                                                                   coordination is
                                                                                                                                                                   maintained.
              Post warning signs in communities                                                                                                                    When wildfire risk has
              during times when wildfire danger                                                                                                                    been high in the past, the
              may be imminent.                                                                                                                                     county has posted warning
    ES-11                                                       Wildfires       Moderate            NCDFR                  NCDFR                     2025          signs to let residents know
                                                                                                                                                                   their risk level. This action
                                                                                                                                                                   will be continued in the
                                                                                                                                                                   future.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:123
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                    Hazard(s)           Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                       Addressed           Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Monitor future wildfires so that                                                                                                                  The county has monitored
              response times are evaluated and                                                                                                                  past fires which has helped
              determine the amount of progress                                                                                                                  them determine response
                                                                                                 Surry County          Surry County
              made during each fire.                                                                                                                            times. This information will
    ES-12                                                       Wildfires          Low            Emergency             Emergency                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                continue to be collected
                                                                                                 Management            Management
                                                                                                                                                                and will be integrated to
                                                                                                                                                                help make better
                                                                                                                                                                judgments in the future.
              Keep primary transportation routes                                                                                                                The county has worked to
              clear for emergency traffic and needs.                                                                                                            keep primary
                                                                                                                                                                transportation routes
                                                                                                 NCDOT, Law            NCDOT, Law                               cleared in case they are
    ES-13                                                    Severe Winter         High                                                             2025
                                                                                                 Enforcement           Enforcement                              needed for emergency
                                                             Weather
                                                                                                                                                                traffic. This action will
                                                                                                                                                                continue to be pursued by
                                                                                                                                                                the county.
              Equip all essential County emergency                                                                                                              The county has equipped
              or non-emergency vehicles with                                                                                                                    many of its vehicles with
              proper equipment to navigate severe                                                Each Surry                                                     the necessary equipment
                                                                                                                     Each Surry County
              winter weather events.                                                               County                                                       to navigate severe winter
                                                                                                                       Department is
    ES-14                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate       Department is                                        2025        weather. However, some
                                                                                                                     responsible for its
                                                             Weather                           responsible for                                                  vehicles are not fully
                                                                                                                          vehicles
                                                                                                 its vehicles                                                   equipped and the county
                                                                                                                                                                will work to ensure
                                                                                                                                                                adequate resources.
                                                                              Public Education and Awareness
              Distribute educational material to the                                                                                                            The county has developed
                                                                                               NC Cooperative
              public to stimulate hazard awareness                                                                                                              a number of educational
                                                                                               Extension, Surry
              through both public locations and                                                                       NC Cooperative                            materials and brochures
                                                                                               County Planning
              online.                                                                                                Extension, Surry                           for the public to utilize, but
    PEA-1                                                          All          Moderate             and                                            2025
                                                                                                                     County Planning                            these may need to be
                                                                                                Development,
                                                                                                                     and Development                            updated and will need to
                                                                                                Surry County
                                                                                                                                                                be reviewed so this action
                                                                                                Public Works
                                                                                                                                                                will remain in the plan.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:124
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                    Hazard(s)           Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation           Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                       Addressed           Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule               Status (2025)
              Increase awareness through all                                                                                                                        The county has worked to
              hazards awareness program at                                                                                                                          increase awareness
              cooperative extension office and                                                                                                                      through programs at the
              distribution of materials at                                                     NC Cooperative                                                       cooperative extension and
                                                                                                                      NC Cooperative
              government centers.                                                              Extension, Surry                                                     has distributed materials
                                                                                                                     Extension, Surry
    PEA-2                                                          All          Moderate       County Planning                                       2025           via many government
                                                                                                                     County Planning
                                                                                                     and                                                            locations. However, these
                                                                                                                     and Development
                                                                                                Development                                                         materials and programs
                                                                                                                                                                    will need to be reviewed,
                                                                                                                                                                    so this action will remain in
                                                                                                                                                                    the plan.
              Create a mandatory water                                                                                                                              The county has
              conservation ordinance to enforce, if                                             Surry County           Surry County                                 implemented a mandatory
              necessary.                                                                        Planning and           Planning and                                 water conservation
                                                                                                                                                2025, implement
                                                                                                Development,           Development,                                 ordinance in the past when
    PEA-3                                                       Drought         Moderate                                                         when drought
                                                                                                Surry County             Disaster                                   drought conditions
                                                                                                                                               conditions require
                                                                                                 Health and             Declaration                                 persisted. The county will
                                                                                                  Nutrition               Funding                                   continue to do this when
                                                                                                                                                                    required.
              Increase awareness through flood                                                 NC Cooperative                                                       The county has worked to
              awareness program at local schools                                               Extension, Surry                                                     increase awareness
                                                              Flooding,                                               NC Cooperative                 2025
    PEA-5     and distribution of materials at                                  Moderate       County Planning                                                      through programs at the
                                                              Geological                                                Extension
              government centers.                                                                    and                                                            local schools and has
                                                              Hazards
                                                                                                Development                                                         distributed materials via
                                                              (Landslides)
                                                                                                                                                                    many government
                                                                                                                                                                    locations. However, these
                                                                                                                                                                    materials and programs
                                                                                                                                                                    will need to be reviewed,
                                                                                                                                                                    so this action will remain
                                                                                                                                                                    in the plan.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:125
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                    Hazard(s)           Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation         Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                       Addressed           Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule             Status (2025)
              Increase awareness through high wind           Tornadoes/                                                                                           The county has worked to
                                                                                                 Surry County          Surry County
              awareness program at local schools           Thunderstorms,                                                                           2025          increase awareness
    PEA-6                                                                       Moderate          Emergency             Emergency
              and distribution of materials at              Hurricane and                                                                                         through programs at the
                                                                                                 Management            Management
              government centers.                              Coastal                                                                                            local schools and has
                                                               Hazards,                                                                                           distributed materials via
                                                            Severe Winter                                                                                         many government
                                                              Weather                                                                                             locations. However, these
                                                                                                                                                                  materials and programs
                                                                                                                                                                  will need to be reviewed,
                                                                                                                                                                  so this action will remain
                                                                                                                                                                  in the plan.
              Monitor and evaluate public response           Tornadoes/                                                                                           Integrate with PEA-1 and
                                                                                                 Surry County          Surry County
              to high wind information.                    Thunderstorms,                                                                           2025          see Implementation Status
    PEA-7                                                                       Moderate          Emergency             Emergency
                                                            Hurricane and                                                                                         above
                                                                                                 Management            Management
                                                               Coastal
                                                               Hazards,
                                                            Severe Winter
                                                              Weather

              Distribute educational material to the                                            Surry County                                                      Integrate with PEA-1 and
                                                                                                                     Surry County Fire
              public to stimulate wildfire awareness                                            Fire Marshal’s                                                    see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                     Marshal’s Office,
              and prevention.                                                                    Office, Surry                                      2025          above
    PEA-8                                                       Wildfires       Moderate                               Surry County
                                                                                                    County
                                                                                                                        Emergency
                                                                                                  Emergency
                                                                                                                       Management
                                                                                                Management
              Increase awareness through wildfire                                                                                                                 The county has worked to
                                                                                                 Surry County          Surry County
              awareness program at local schools                                                                                                    2025          increase awareness
    PEA-9                                                       Wildfires       Moderate          Emergency             Emergency
              and distribution of materials at                                                                                                                    through programs at the
                                                                                                 Management            Management
              government centers.                                                                                                                                 local schools and has
                                                                                                                                                                  distributed materials via
                                                                                                                                                                  many government
                                                                                                                                                                  locations. However, these
                                                                                                                                                                  materials and programs
                                                                                                                                                                  will need to be reviewed,
                                                                                                                                                                  so this action will remain
                                                                                                                                                                  in the plan.
              Monitor and evaluate public response                                               Surry County          Surry County                               Coordinate with PEA-1 and
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-10     to wildfire information.                          Wildfires       Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                                 see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                                                                 Management            Management                                 above


Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:126
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                    Hazard(s)           Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation         Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                       Addressed           Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule             Status (2025)
              Educate on proper winterizing of                                                  Surry County           Surry County                               Coordinate with PEA-1 and
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-11     homes.                                         Severe Winter      Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                                 see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                             Weather                             Management            Management                                 above
              Educate on proper emergency heating                                               Surry County           Surry County                               Coordinate with PEA-1 and
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-12     equipment.                                     Severe Winter      Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                                 see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                             Weather                             Management            Management                                 above
              Educate on winter weather disaster                                                Surry County           Surry County                               Coordinate with PEA-1 and
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-13     supplies.                                      Severe Winter      Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                                 see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                             Weather                             Management            Management                                 above
              Educate on several days’ supply of                                                Surry County           Surry County                               Coordinate with PEA-1 and
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-14     non-perishable food.                           Severe Winter      Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                                 see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                             Weather                             Management            Management                                 above
              Educate on checking smoke alarms                                                  Surry County                                                      Coordinate with PEA-1 and
                                                                                                                     Surry County Fire         See schedule for
   PEA-15     and fire extinguishers.                        Severe Winter      Moderate        Fire Marshal’s                                                    see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                      Marshal’s Office              PEA-1
                                                             Weather                                Office                                                        above
              Inform and educate the citizens by                                                                                                                  Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              providing hazard and mitigation                                                                                                  See schedule for   see Implementation Status
   PEA-16                                                     Earthquakes       Moderate         Surry County          Surry County
              information in public buildings and                                                                                                   PEA-1         above
              websites.
              Educate via classes on proper                                                                                                                       The county has provided
              retrofitting equipment.                                                                                                                             some education on
                                                                                                                                                                  earthquake retrofitting,
                                                                                                                                                                  but it would like to
   PEA-17                                                     Earthquakes       Moderate         Surry County          Surry County                 2025
                                                                                                                                                                  encourage more of this
                                                                                                                                                                  and so it will work to hold
                                                                                                                                                                  more classes going
                                                                                                                                                                  forward.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:127
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Dobson Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              Develop a comprehensive Capital                                                                                                                   The county has not yet
              Improvements Plan.                                                                                                                                developed a
                                                                                                  Town of                                                       comprehensive CIP,
                                                                                                Dobson, Surry          Surry County                             although it has undertaken
     P-2                                                           All             High        County Planning         Planning and                 2025        some capital projects. The
                                                                                                    and                Development                              county will continue to
                                                                                                Development                                                     work to develop a
                                                                                                                                                                comprehensive CIP going
                                                                                                                                                                forward.
              Adopt a Storm Water Management                                                                                                                    The county has not yet
                                                            Flooding,                             Town of
              Ordinance or Plan                                                                                        Surry County                             adopted a Stormwater
                                                            Geological                         Dobson, Board
     P-3                                                                           High                                Planning and                 2025        Management Ordinance or
                                                            Hazards                              of County
                                                                                                                       Development                              Plan. This will continue to
                                                            (Landslides)                       Commissioners
                                                                                                                                                                be a goal in the future.
              Require that structural features are                                                                                                              The county has attempted
              manufactured and installed in such a           Tornadoes/                                                                                         to identify structures that
              way that the hazardous effect of wind        Thunderstorms,                                                                                       are constructed in a way
              borne debris is limited.                      Hurricane and                          Town of                                                      that contributes to wind
                                                                                                                       Surry County
                                                               Coastal                          Dobson, Surry                                                   borne debris. Although
     P-5                                                                        Moderate                               Planning and                 2025
                                                               Hazards,                        County Building                                                  many cases have been
                                                                                                                       Development
                                                            Severe Winter                        Inspections                                                    identified and rectified,
                                                              Weather                                                                                           there is still significant
                                                                                                                                                                work to be completed on
                                                                                                                                                                this action.
              Develop a wildfire management plan                                                                                                                A wildfire management
                                                                                                  Town of
              including clear objectives. The plan                                                                                                              plan is in progress of being
                                                                                               Dobson, NCDFR,          NCDFR, USFS,
              should include degree of fire risk and                                                                                                            developed but the plan is
     P-6                                                        Wildfires       Moderate         USFS, Surry         Surry County Fire              2025
              wildfire history of county.                                                                                                                       not complete, so
                                                                                                 County Fire         Marshal’s Office
                                                                                                                                                                additional work will need
                                                                                               Marshal’s Office
                                                                                                                                                                to be completed.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:128
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Make available all necessary                                                                                                                      Although many resources
              resources for fire management                                                       Town of                                                       are available for fire
              planning at all levels.                                                           Dobson, Surry                                                   management planning,
                                                                                                                        Local, State,
     P-7                                                        Wildfires       Moderate          County                                            2025        additional resources would
                                                                                                                          Federal
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      be useful and an ongoing
                                                                                                Management                                                      task will be to pursue more
                                                                                                                                                                resources.
                                                                                       Property Protection
              Encourage low-interest loans to                                                                                                                   The county has
              farmers from the State to assist with                                                                                                             encouraged low interest
                                                                                                  Town of
              the effects of a drought.                                                                                                                         loans from the state and
                                                                                               Dobson, Board           Surry County
    PP-1                                                        Drought            Low                                                              2025        will continue to advocate
                                                                                                 of County             Government
                                                                                                                                                                for those to be available
                                                                                               Commissioners
                                                                                                                                                                during/after a drought
                                                                                                                                                                event.
              Review of public and private services                                                                                                             Generally, the county
              for improvements while relocating             Flooding,                                                                                           has worked to relocate
              infrastructure away from flood prone          Geological                                                                                          infrastructure away from
                                                                                                  Town of
              areas.                                        Hazards                                                                                             flood prone areas.
                                                                                                Dobson, Surry
                                                            (Landslides)                                                                                        However, there are still
    PP-3                                                                           High        County Planning              Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                areas where infrastructure
                                                                                                    and
                                                                                                                                                                is located in flood prone
                                                                                                Development
                                                                                                                                                                areas and the county will
                                                                                                                                                                work to address those
                                                                                                                                                                areas.
              Ensure manufactured homes are                   Tornadoes/                                                                                        The county performs
              property installed and secured.               Thunderstorms,                                                                                      inspections on
                                                                                                   Town of
                                                             Hurricane and                                             Surry County                             manufactured homes to
                                                                                                Dobson, Surry
    PP-4                                                    Coastal Hazards,    Moderate                               Planning and                 2025        ensure they are properly
                                                                                               County Building
                                                             Severe Winter                                             Development                              installed. This action will
                                                                                                 Inspections
                                                               Weather                                                                                          need to be continued
                                                                                                                                                                going forward.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:129
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Ensure all residential construction            Tornadoes/                                                                                         The county is working to
              conforms with latest wind-resistance         Thunderstorms,                                                                                       ensure that all residential
              standards.                                    Hurricane and                                                                                       construction is consistent
                                                               Coastal                             Town of                                                      with the latest wind
                                                                                                                       Surry County
                                                               Hazards,                         Dobson, Surry                                                   standards. County officials
    PP-5                                                                        Moderate                               Planning and                 2025
                                                            Severe Winter                      County Building                                                  will continue to identify
                                                                                                                       Development
                                                              Weather                            Inspections                                                    structures that are in non-
                                                                                                                                                                conformance and work
                                                                                                                                                                with citizens to ensure
                                                                                                                                                                compliance.
              Retrofit emergency operations                                                                                                                     Some critical facilities have
              centers and critical facilities.                                                                                                                  been retrofitted to protect
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                                                                                                                                against hazards, but many
    PP-6                                                           All             High         Dobson, Surry          Surry County                 2025
                                                                                                                                                                critical facilities remain
                                                                                                  County
                                                                                                                                                                unmitigated and will need
                                                                                                                                                                to be addressed.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:130
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative  Lead Agency/                Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority   Department              Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                      Emergency Services
              Coordinate efforts in regards to                                                     Town of                                                      The county has
              equipment and manpower to unload                                                   Dobson, NC                                                     coordinated efforts on
              hay and other agriculture products                                                 Cooperative                                                    equipment in the past and
                                                                                                                      NC Cooperative
     ES-1     delivered by aircraft, trucks, and                Drought         Moderate       Extension, Surry                                     2025        will continue that effort in
                                                                                                                        Extension
              trains.                                                                              County                                                       the event of a drought.
                                                                                                 Emergency
                                                                                                Management
              Procure water trailers for                                                           Town of                                                      In the past, water trailers
              communities with dry or                                                           Dobson, Surry          Surry County                             were procured when
              contaminated wells.                                                                  County               Emergency                               needed to address
                                                                                                 Emergency             Management,                              dry/contaminate wells.
     ES-2                                                       Drought         Moderate                                                            2025
                                                                                                Management,            Surry County                             This will continue to be the
                                                                                                Surry County            Health and                              case going forward.
                                                                                                 Health and              Nutrition
                                                                                                  Nutrition
              Decrease the time for evacuation.                                                    Town of                                                      The county has attempted
                                                                                                Dobson, Surry                                                   to decrease evacuation
                                                                                                                      Surry County
                                                                                                   County                                                       times in the past, but this
                                                                                                                       Emergency
     ES-3                                                          All             High          Emergency                                          2025        is an effort that will
                                                                                                                    Management, Law
                                                                                                Management,                                                     continue to be pursued to
                                                                                                                      Enforcement
                                                                                                     Law                                                        reduce times even further.
                                                                                                Enforcement
              Improve areas where evacuation may                                                                                                                The county has taken
              be impeded.                                                                                                                                       action in some locations
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                                                                                                                                where bottlenecks might
                                                                                                Dobson, Surry
                                                                                                                                                                occur and has worked to
                                                                                                  County               Surry County
                                                                                                                                                                develop a plan to keep
     ES-4                                                          All             High          Emergency              Emergency                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                evacuation moving
                                                                                                Management,            Management
                                                                                                                                                                smoothly. However, as in
                                                                                                    Law
                                                                                                                                                                E-3, the county will
                                                                                                Enforcement
                                                                                                                                                                continue to try to reduce
                                                                                                                                                                its evacuation times.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:131
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Coordinate early warning flash flood                                                                                                                 The county has worked
              systems with Virginia counties that                                                                                                                  with upstream VA counties
              are upstream of County tributaries.                                                 Town of                                                          to provide advanced flash
                                                                                                                       Surry County
                                                                                                Dobson, Surry                                                      flood warnings. Continued
                                                                                                                        Emergency
     ES-5                                                          All          Moderate          County                                             2025          coordination will be
                                                                                                                       Management,
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                         required on this and the
                                                                                                                         NCDEM
                                                                                                Management                                                         county will work to
                                                                                                                                                                   improve warning systems
                                                                                                                                                                   overall.
              Make sure that all community                                                                                                                         The county regularly
              warning sirens and warning systems                                                  Town of                                                          inspects all warning sirens
              are in proper working condition.                                                  Dobson, Surry          Surry County                                and systems to ensure
     ES-6                                                          All             High           County                Emergency                    2025          they will be ready for a
                                                                                                 Emergency             Management                                  disaster event. The city will
                                                                                                Management                                                         continue inspect these
                                                                                                                                                                   systems going forward.
              Communicate with other                                                                                                                               The county has taken the
              cities/counties to facilitate emergency                                                                                                              lead in the past to
              response and recovery.                                                              Town of                                                          coordinate on response
                                                                                                Dobson, Surry          Surry County                                and recovery activities
     ES-7                                                          All          Moderate          County                Emergency                    2025          with municipalities and it is
                                                                                                 Emergency             Management                                  in constant coordination
                                                                                                Management                                                         with other counties. This
                                                                                                                                                                   will continue to be a
                                                                                                                                                                   priority in the future.
              Train fire fighters with the latest fire                                                                                                             Although firefighters have
              fighting techniques and equip them                                                   Town of                                                         been well trained and
              with the most up to date equipment.                                               Dobson, Surry                                                      equipped in the past, there
     ES-8                                                       Wildfires       Moderate         County Fire                Local                    2025          is a constant need for
                                                                                                  Marshal’s                                                        additional training and
                                                                                                Office, NCDFR                                                      resources, so this will be
                                                                                                                                                                   pursued going forward.
              Establish a housing numbering system                                                                                                                 The county completed its
                                                                                                  Town of
              and ensure that the numbers are                                                                                                                      re-addressing in 2000 but
                                                                                                Dobson, Surry          Surry County
              visible from the road.                                                                                                              2025, Annual     it will need to be updated
     ES-9                                                       Wildfires          Low            County                Emergency
                                                                                                                                               review and update   on a consistent basis and
                                                                                                 Emergency             Management
                                                                                                                                                                   re-evaluated for an update
                                                                                                Management
                                                                                                                                                                   in the future.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:132
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Coordinate responses between each                                                                                                                 The county has
              of the county’s fire departments.                                                                                                                 coordinated response
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                                                                                                                                within each of its fire
                                                                                                Dobson, Surry        Surry County Fire
    ES-10                                                       Wildfire        Moderate                                                            2025        departments and will
                                                                                                 County Fire          Marshal’s Office
                                                                                                                                                                continue to ensure
                                                                                               Marshal’s Office
                                                                                                                                                                coordination is
                                                                                                                                                                maintained.
              Post warning signs in communities                                                                                                                 When wildfire risk has
              during times when wildfire danger                                                                                                                 been high in the past, the
              may be imminent.                                                                                                                                  county has posted warning
    ES-11                                                       Wildfire        Moderate            NCDFR                  NCDFR                    2025        signs to let residents know
                                                                                                                                                                their risk level. This action
                                                                                                                                                                will be continued in the
                                                                                                                                                                future.
              Monitor future wildfires so that                                                                                                                  The county has monitored
              response times are evaluated and                                                                                                                  past fires which has helped
                                                                                                  Town of
              determine the amount of progress                                                                                                                  them determine response
                                                                                                Dobson, Surry          Surry County
              made during each fire.                                                                                                                            times. This information will
    ES-12                                                       Wildfire           Low            County                Emergency                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                continue to be collected
                                                                                                 Emergency             Management
                                                                                                                                                                and will be integrated to
                                                                                                Management
                                                                                                                                                                help make better
                                                                                                                                                                judgments in the future.
              Keep primary transportation routes                                                                                                                The county has worked to
              clear for emergency traffic and needs.                                                                                                            keep primary
                                                                                                                                                                transportation routes
                                                                                                 NCDOT, Law            NCDOT, Law                               cleared in case they are
    ES-13                                                    Severe Winter         High                                                             2025
                                                                                                 Enforcement           Enforcement                              needed for emergency
                                                             Weather
                                                                                                                                                                traffic. This action will
                                                                                                                                                                continue to be pursued by
                                                                                                                                                                the county.
              Equip all essential County emergency                                                                                                              The county has equipped
              or non-emergency vehicles with                                                                                                                    many of its vehicles with
                                                                                                   Town of
              proper equipment to navigate severe                                                                                                               the necessary equipment
                                                                                                Dobson, Each         Each Surry County
              winter weather events.                                                                                                                            to navigate severe winter
                                                                                                Surry County           Department is
    ES-14                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate                                                            2025        weather. However, some
                                                                                               Department is         responsible for its
                                                             Weather                                                                                            vehicles are not fully
                                                                                               responsible for            vehicles
                                                                                                                                                                equipped and the county
                                                                                                 its vehicles
                                                                                                                                                                will work to ensure
                                                                                                                                                                adequate resources.


Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:133
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)         Relative    Lead Agency/      Potential                        Implementation           Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed         Priority     Department    Funding Sources                        Schedule               Status (2025)
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Distribute educational material to the                                               Town of                                                          The county has developed
              public to stimulate hazard awareness                                               Dobson, NC                                                         a number of educational
              through both public locations and                                                  Cooperative                                                        materials and brochures
                                                                                                                      NC Cooperative
              online.                                                                          Extension, Surry                                                     for the public to utilize, but
                                                                                                                     Extension, Surry
    PEA-1                                                          All          Moderate       County Planning                                       2025           these may need to be
                                                                                                                     County Planning
                                                                                                     and                                                            updated and will need to
                                                                                                                     and Development
                                                                                                Development,                                                        be reviewed so this action
                                                                                                Surry County                                                        will remain in the plan.
                                                                                                Public Works
              Increase awareness through all                                                                                                                        The county has worked to
              hazards awareness program at                                                                                                                          increase awareness
              cooperative extension office and                                                     Town of                                                          through programs at the
              distribution of materials at                                                       Dobson, NC                                                         cooperative extension and
                                                                                                                      NC Cooperative
              government centers.                                                                Cooperative                                                        has distributed materials
                                                                                                                     Extension, Surry
    PEA-2                                                          All          Moderate       Extension, Surry                                      2025           via many government
                                                                                                                     County Planning
                                                                                               County Planning                                                      locations. However, these
                                                                                                                     and Development
                                                                                                     and                                                            materials and programs
                                                                                                Development                                                         will need to be reviewed,
                                                                                                                                                                    so this action will remain in
                                                                                                                                                                    the plan.
              Create a mandatory water                                                             Town of                                                          The county has
              conservation ordinance to enforce, if                                             Dobson, Surry          Surry County                                 implemented a mandatory
              necessary.                                                                       County Planning         Planning and                                 water conservation
                                                                                                                                                2025, implement
                                                                                                     and               Development,                                 ordinance in the past when
    PEA-3                                                       Drought         Moderate                                                         when drought
                                                                                                Development,             Disaster                                   drought conditions
                                                                                                                                               conditions require
                                                                                                Surry County            Declaration                                 persisted. The county will
                                                                                                 Health and               Funding                                   continue to do this when
                                                                                                  Nutrition                                                         required.
              Increase awareness through flood                                                     Town of                                                          Coordinate with PEA-2 and
              awareness program at local schools            Flooding,                            Dobson, NC                                                         see Implementation Status
              and distribution of materials at              Geological                           Cooperative                                                        above
                                                            Hazards                                                   NC Cooperative           See schedule for
    PEA-5     government centers.                                               Moderate       Extension, Surry
                                                            (Landslides)                                                Extension                   PEA-2
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                     and
                                                                                                Development




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                     9:134
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation         Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule             Status (2025)
              Increase awareness through high wind           Tornadoes/                           Town of                                                         Coordinate with PEA-2 and
              awareness program at local schools           Thunderstorms,                       Dobson, Surry          Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
    PEA-6     and distribution of materials at              Hurricane and       Moderate          County                Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-2
              government centers.                              Coastal                           Emergency             Management
                                                           Hazards, Severe                      Management
                                                           Winter Weather
              Monitor and evaluate public response           Tornadoes/                           Town of                                                         Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              to high wind information.                    Thunderstorms,                       Dobson, Surry          Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
    PEA-7                                                   Hurricane and       Moderate          County                Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                               Coastal                           Emergency             Management
                                                           Hazards, Severe                      Management
                                                           Winter Weather
              Distribute educational material to the                                              Town of                                                         Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              public to simulate wildfire awareness                                             Dobson, Surry                                                     see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                     Surry County Fire
              and prevention.                                                                    County Fire                                                      above
                                                                                                                     Marshal’s Office,
                                                                                                  Marshal’s                                    See schedule for
    PEA-8                                                       Wildfires       Moderate                               Surry County
                                                                                                 Office, Surry                                      PEA-1
                                                                                                                        Emergency
                                                                                                   County
                                                                                                                       Management
                                                                                                 Emergency
                                                                                                Management
              Increase awareness through wildfire                                                 Town of                                                         Coordinate with PEA-2 and
              awareness program at local schools                                                Dobson, Surry          Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
    PEA-9     and distribution of materials at                  Wildfires       Moderate           County               Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-2
              government centers.                                                                Emergency             Management
                                                                                                Management
              Monitor and evaluate public response                                                Town of                                                         Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              to wildfire information.                                                          Dobson, Surry          Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-10                                                       Wildfires       Moderate           County               Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                                                                 Emergency             Management
                                                                                                Management
              Educate on proper winterizing of                                                    Town of                                                         Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              homes.                                                                            Dobson, Surry          Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-11                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate           County               Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                             Weather                             Emergency             Management
                                                                                                Management




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:135
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation         Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule             Status (2025)
              Educate on proper emergency heating                                                 Town of                                                         Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              equipment.                                                                        Dobson, Surry          Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-12                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate           County               Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                             Weather                             Emergency             Management
                                                                                                Management
              Educate on winter weather disaster                                                  Town of                                                         Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              supplies.                                                                         Dobson, Surry          Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-13                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate           County               Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                             Weather                             Emergency             Management
                                                                                                Management
              Educate on several days’ supply of                                                  Town of                                                         Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              non-perishable food.                                                              Dobson, Surry          Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-14                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate           County               Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                             Weather                             Emergency             Management
                                                                                                Management
              Educate on checking smoke alarms                                                    Town of                                                         Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              and fire extinguishers.                                                           Dobson, Surry        Surry County Fire         See schedule for   see Implementation Status
   PEA-15                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate
                                                                                                 County Fire          Marshal’s Office              PEA-1         above
                                                             Weather
                                                                                               Marshal’s Office
              Inform and educate the citizens by                                                                                                                  Coordinate with PEA-1 and
                                                                                                  Town of
              providing hazard and mitigation                                                                                                  See schedule for   see Implementation Status
   PEA-16                                                     Earthquakes       Moderate        Dobson, Surry          Surry County
              information in public buildings and                                                                                                   PEA-1         above
                                                                                                  County
              websites.
              Educate via classes on proper                                                                                                                       The county has provided
              retrofitting equipment.                                                                                                                             some education on
                                                                                                                                                                  earthquake retrofitting,
                                                                                                  Town of
                                                                                                                                                                  but it would like to
   PEA-17                                                     Earthquakes       Moderate        Dobson, Surry          Surry County                 2025
                                                                                                                                                                  encourage more of this
                                                                                                  County
                                                                                                                                                                  and so it will work to hold
                                                                                                                                                                  more classes going
                                                                                                                                                                  forward.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:136
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Elkin Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule            Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              Comply with the Town’s “Water                                                                                                                      The town has complied
              Supply Shortage Ordinance” and the                                                                                                                 with its water shortage
     P-1      “Emergency Water Shortage                         Drought         Moderate        Town of Elkin          Town of Elkin                2025         response plans and will
              Response Handbook for the Town of                                                                                                                  continue to abide by these
              Elkin Water Supply System.”                                                                                                                        going forward.
              Evaluate the Town’s eligibility to re-        Flooding,                                                                                            The town is not a member
              enter NFIP.                                   Geological                                                                                           of the NFIP. It will continue
     P-2                                                                        Moderate        Town of Elkin          Town of Elkin                2025
                                                            Hazards                                                                                              to evaluate the value of
                                                            (Landslides)                                                                                         joining the program.

              Work with the Surry County to                 Flooding,                                                                                            The county does not
              conduct a community ratings systems           Geological                                                                                           currently participate in the
              evaluation.                                   Hazards                             Town of Elkin,                                                   CRS, but it will continue to
                                                            (Landslides)                        Surry County                                    2025, Annually   consider pursuing this,
     P-3                                                                        Moderate                               Town of Elkin
                                                                                                Planning and                                       review        especially as it implements
                                                                                                Development                                                      floodplain management
                                                                                                                                                                 actions that will contribute
                                                                                                                                                                 to points in the CRS.
              Re-enter the National Flood Insurance         Flooding,                                                                                            The town is not a member
              Program                                       Geological                                                                                           of the NFIP. It will continue
     P-4                                                                        Moderate        Town of Elkin          Town of Elkin                2025
                                                            Hazards                                                                                              to evaluate the value of
                                                            (Landslides)                                                                                         joining the program.
              Adopt a Storm Water Management                                                                                                                     The county has not yet
                                                            Flooding,
              Ordinance or Plan                                                                                                                                  adopted a Stormwater
                                                            Geological
     P-5                                                                           High         Town of Elkin          Town of Elkin                2025         Management Ordinance or
                                                            Hazards
                                                                                                                                                                 Plan. This will continue to
                                                            (Landslides)
                                                                                                                                                                 be a goal in the future.
              Adopt Surry County Wildfire                                                                                                                        A wildfire management
              Management Plan.                                                                                                                                   plan is in progress of being
                                                                                                                                                                 developed but the plan is
     P-6                                                        Wildfires       Moderate        Town of Elkin          Town of Elkin                2025
                                                                                                                                                                 not complete, so
                                                                                                                                                                 additional work will need
                                                                                                                                                                 to be completed.
                                                                                       Property Protection




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:137
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Ensure manufactured homes are                  Tornadoes/                                                                                         The county performs
              property installed and secured.              Thunderstorms,                                                                                       inspections on
                                                            Hurricane and                                              Surry County                             manufactured homes to
                                                                                                   Building
    PP-1                                                       Coastal          Moderate                               Planning and                 2025        ensure they are properly
                                                                                                  Inspectors
                                                               Hazards,                                                Development                              installed. This action will
                                                            Severe Winter                                                                                       need to be continued
                                                               Weather                                                                                          going forward.
              Ensure all residential construction            Tornadoes/                                                                                         The county is working to
              conforms with latest wind-resistance         Thunderstorms,                                                                                       ensure that all residential
              standards.                                    Hurricane and                                                                                       construction is consistent
                                                               Coastal                                                                                          with the latest wind
                                                                                                                       Surry County
                                                               Hazards,                            Building                                                     standards. County officials
    PP-2                                                                        Moderate                               Planning and                 2025
                                                            Severe Winter                         Inspectors                                                    will continue to identify
                                                                                                                       Development
                                                               Weather                                                                                          structures that are in non-
                                                                                                                                                                conformance and work
                                                                                                                                                                with citizens to ensure
                                                                                                                                                                compliance.
              Retrofit emergency operations                                                                                                                     Some critical facilities have
              centers and critical facilities.                                                                                                                  been retrofitted to protect
                                                                                                                                                                against hazards, but many
    PP-3                                                           All             High         Town of Elkin          Town of Elkin                2025
                                                                                                                                                                critical facilities remain
                                                                                                                                                                unmitigated and will need
                                                                                                                                                                to be addressed.
                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Train fire fighters with the latest fire                                                                                                          Although firefighters have
              fighting techniques and equip them                                                                                                                been well trained and
              with the most up to date equipment.                                                                                                               equipped in the past, there
                                                                                                  Elkin Fire             Elkin Fire
     ES-1                                                       Wildfire        Moderate                                                            2025        is a constant need for
                                                                                                 Department             Department
                                                                                                                                                                additional training and
                                                                                                                                                                resources, so this will be
                                                                                                                                                                pursued going forward.
              Keep primary transportation routes                                                                                                                The county has worked to
              clear for emergency traffic and needs.                                                                                                            keep primary
                                                                                                                                                                transportation routes
                                                                                                                                                                cleared in case they are
     ES-2                                                    Severe Winter         High         Town of Elkin          Town of Elkin                2025
                                                                                                                                                                needed for emergency
                                                             Weather
                                                                                                                                                                traffic. This action will
                                                                                                                                                                continue to be pursued by
                                                                                                                                                                the county.


Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:138
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Equip all essential City emergency or                                                                                                             The town has equipped
              non-emergency vehicles with proper                                                                                                                many of its vehicles with
              equipment to navigate severe winter                                                                                                               the necessary equipment
              weather events.                                                                                                                                   to navigate a severe winter
     ES-3                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate        Town of Elkin          Town of Elkin                2025        weather. However, some
                                                             Weather                                                                                            vehicles are not fully
                                                                                                                                                                equipped and the county
                                                                                                                                                                will work to ensure
                                                                                                                                                                adequate resources.
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Inform and educate the citizens by                                                                                                                The town has developed a
              providing hazard and mitigation                                                                                                                   number of educational
              information in public buildings.                                                                                                                  materials and brochures
                                                                                                                                                                for the public to utilize, but
    PEA-1                                                          All             High         Town of Elkin          Town of Elkin                2025
                                                                                                                                                                these may need to be
                                                                                                                                                                updated and will need to
                                                                                                                                                                be reviewed so this action
                                                                                                                                                                will remain in the plan.
              Educate residents about the                                                                                                                       The town has provided
              importance of storm water                                                                                                                         significant education on
              management.                                                                                                                                       the importance of
                                                            Flooding,
    PEA-2                                                                       Moderate        Town of Elkin          Town of Elkin                2025        stormwater management
                                                            Geological
                                                                                                                                                                to its citizens, but
                                                            Hazards
                                                                                                                                                                additional work needs to
                                                            (Landslides)
                                                                                                                                                                be completed.
              Work with Surry County to increase                                                                                                                The town has worked to
              public awareness of all hazards and                                                                                                               increase awareness
              potential mitigation.                                                                                                                             through programs at the
                                                                                                                                                                cooperative extension and
                                                                                                Town of Elkin,
                                                                                                                                                                has distributed materials
                                                                                                Surry County
    PEA-3                                                          All          Moderate                               Town of Elkin                2025        via many government
                                                                                                 Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                locations. However, these
                                                                                                Management
                                                                                                                                                                materials and programs
                                                                                                                                                                will need to be reviewed,
                                                                                                                                                                so this action will remain in
                                                                                                                                                                the plan.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:139
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation         Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule             Status (2025)
              Inform and educate citizens by                                                                                                                      Coordinate with PEA-3 and
                                                            Flooding,                                                                          See schedule for
    PEA-4     providing hazard and mitigation                                   Moderate        Town of Elkin          Town of Elkin                              see Implementation Status
                                                            Geological                                                                              PEA-3
              information in public buildings.                                                                                                                    above
                                                            Hazards
                                                            (Landslides)

              Educate residents on all hazards               Tornadoes/                         Town of Elkin,                                                    Coordinate with PEA-3 and
              associated with high winds and how           Thunderstorms,                       Surry County                                   See schedule for   see Implementation Status
    PEA-5                                                                       Moderate                               Town of Elkin
              to reduce exposure to damage.                 Hurricane and                        Emergency                                          PEA-3         above
                                                               Coastal                          Management
                                                           Hazards, Severe
                                                               Winter
                                                              Weather
              Educate residents on wildfire                                                     Town of Elkin,                                                    Coordinate with PEA-3 and
              prevention and awareness.                                                         Surry County                                   See schedule for   see Implementation Status
    PEA-6                                                       Wildfire        Moderate                               Town of Elkin
                                                                                                 Emergency                                          PEA-3         above
                                                                                                Management
              Assist Surry County with increasing                                               Town of Elkin,                                                    Coordinate with PEA-3 and
              public awareness of wildfire                                                      Surry County                                   See schedule for   see Implementation Status
    PEA-7                                                       Wildfire        Moderate                               Town of Elkin
              mitigation.                                                                        Emergency                                          PEA-3         above
                                                                                                Management
              Make home and business owners                                                                                                                       To some extent, members
              aware of potential hazards of collapse                                                                                                              of the public have been
              from heavy snowfall and inform them                                               Surry County           Surry County                               informed of structural
    PEA-8     of structural retrofitting options.            Severe Winter      Moderate        Planning and           Planning and                 2025          retrofitting techniques, but
                                                             Weather                            Development            Development                                additional education is
                                                                                                                                                                  required so this will remain
                                                                                                                                                                  an action.

              Educate on proper winterizing of                                                   Surry County          Surry County                               Coordinate with PEA-3 and
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
    PEA-9     homes.                                         Severe Winter      Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                                 see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-3
                                                             Weather                             Management            Management                                 above
              Educate on proper emergency heating                                                Surry County          Surry County                               Coordinate with PEA-3 and
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-10     equipment.                                     Severe Winter      Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                                 see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-3
                                                             Weather                             Management            Management                                 above
              Educate on winter weather disaster                                                 Surry County          Surry County                               Coordinate with PEA-3 and
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-11     supplies.                                      Severe Winter      Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                                 see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-3
                                                             Weather                             Management            Management                                 above




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:140
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation         Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule             Status (2025)
              Educate on several days’ supply of                                                 Surry County          Surry County                               Coordinate with PEA-3 and
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-12     non-perishable food.                           Severe Winter      Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                                 see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-3
                                                             Weather                             Management            Management                                 above
              Educate on checking smoke alarms                                                                                                                    Coordinate with PEA-3 and
                                                                                                  Elkin Fire             Elkin Fire            See schedule for
   PEA-13     and fire extinguishers.                        Severe Winter      Moderate                                                                          see Implementation Status
                                                                                                 Department             Department                  PEA-3
                                                             Weather                                                                                              above
              Provide home devices which directly                                                                                                                 Although some home
              access National Weather Service                                                                                                                     weather devices have been
                                                                                                 Surry County          Surry County
              frequencies to the hearing impaired.                                                                                                                provided, the town would
   PEA-15                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                  like to continue to make an
                                                             Weather                             Management            Management
                                                                                                                                                                  effort to distribute these to
                                                                                                                                                                  a broader population.
              Place severe winter weather                                                                                                                         Coordinate with PEA-3 and
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-16     mitigation information on the                  Severe Winter      Moderate        Town of Elkin          Town of Elkin                              see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-3
              city website.                                  Weather                                                                                              above
              Inform and educate the citizens by                                                                                                                  Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              providing hazard and mitigation                                                                                                  See schedule for   see Implementation Status
   PEA-17                                                     Earthquake        Moderate        Town of Elkin          Town of Elkin
              information in public buildings and                                                                                                   PEA-1         above
              websites.
              Educate via classes on proper                                                                                                                       The county has provided
              retrofitting equipment.                                                                                                                             some education on
                                                                                                                                                                  earthquake retrofitting,
                                                                                                                                                                  but it would like to
   PEA-18                                                     Earthquake        Moderate        Town of Elkin          Town of Elkin                2025
                                                                                                                                                                  encourage more of this
                                                                                                                                                                  and so it will work to hold
                                                                                                                                                                  more classes going
                                                                                                                                                                  forward.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:141
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
City of Mount Airy Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule            Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              Conduct a community ratings system                                                                                                                 The city does not currently
              evaluation to continue compliance             Flooding,                                                                                            participate in the CRS, but
              with NFIP.                                    Geological                                                                                           it will continue to consider
                                                                                                Surry County           Surry County
                                                            Hazards                                                                             2025, Annually   pursuing this, especially as
     P-1                                                                        Moderate        Planning and           Planning and
                                                            (Landslides)                                                                           review        it implements floodplain
                                                                                                Development            Development
                                                                                                                                                                 management actions that
                                                                                                                                                                 will contribute to points in
                                                                                                                                                                 the CRS.
              Develop a comprehensive Capital                                                                                                                    The city has not yet
              Improvements Plan.                                                                                                                                 developed a
                                                                                                                                                                 comprehensive CIP,
                                                                                                Mt. Airy Public        Mt. Airy Public                           although it has undertaken
     P-2                                                           All             High           Services               Services                   2025         some capital projects. The
                                                                                                 Department             Department                               county will continue to
                                                                                                                                                                 work to develop a
                                                                                                                                                                 comprehensive CIP going
                                                                                                                                                                 forward.
              Adopt a Storm Water Management                                                                                                                     The city has not yet
                                                            Flooding,
              Ordinance or Plan                                                                 Mt. Airy Public        Mt. Airy Public                           adopted a Stormwater
                                                            Geological
     P-3                                                                           High           Services               Services                   2025         Management Ordinance or
                                                            Hazards
                                                                                                 Department             Department                               Plan. This will continue to
                                                            (Landslides)
                                                                                                                                                                 be a goal in the future.
              Require that structural features are                                                                                                               The city has attempted to
              manufactured and installed in such a            Tornadoes/                                                                                         identify structures that are
              way that the hazardous effect of wind         Thunderstorms,                                                                                       constructed in a way that
              borne debris is limited.                       Hurricane and                      Surry County           Surry County                              contributes to wind borne
     P-5                                                        Coastal         Moderate        Planning and           Planning and                 2025         debris. Although many
                                                               Hazards,                         Development            Development                               cases have been identified
                                                             Severe Winter                                                                                       and rectified, there is still
                                                               Weather                                                                                           significant work to be
                                                                                                                                                                 completed on this action.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:142
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Make available all necessary                                                                                                                      Although many resources
              resources for fire management                                                                                                                     are available for fire
              planning at all levels.                                                                                                                           management planning,
                                                                                                 Mt. Airy Fire          Mt. Airy Fire
     P-6                                                        Wildfire        Moderate                                                            2025        additional resources would
                                                                                                 Department             Department
                                                                                                                                                                be useful and an ongoing
                                                                                                                                                                task will be to pursue more
                                                                                                                                                                resources.
                                                                                       Property Protection
              Encourage low-interest loans to                                                                                                                   The county has
              farmers from the State to assist with                                                                                                             encouraged low interest
              the effects of a drought.                                                                                                                         loans from the state and
                                                                                                 Board of              Surry County
    PP-1                                                        Drought            Low                                                              2025        will continue to advocate
                                                                                               Commissioners           Government
                                                                                                                                                                for those to be available
                                                                                                                                                                during/after a drought
                                                                                                                                                                event.
              Identify and acquire properties that                                                                                                              The county will continue to
              are vulnerable to flood damage.                                                                                                                   attempt to implement
                                                            Flooding,                          Planning, Parks          Local, State,                           mitigation action for
    PP-2                                                                           High                                                             2025
                                                            Geological                         and Recreation             Federal                               repetitive loss properties
                                                            Hazards                                                                                             and other high-risk
                                                            (Landslides)                                                                                        properties.
              Review of public and private services                                                                                                             Generally, the county
              for improvements while relocating                                                                                                                 has worked to relocate
              infrastructure away from flood prone                                                                                                              infrastructure away from
              areas.                                                                                                                                            flood prone areas.
                                                            Flooding,                              Mt. Airy                                                     However, there are still
    PP-3                                                                           High                                     Local                   2025
                                                            Geological                             Planning                                                     areas where infrastructure
                                                            Hazards                                                                                             is located in flood prone
                                                            (Landslides)                                                                                        areas and the county will
                                                                                                                                                                work to address those
                                                                                                                                                                areas.
              Installation of manufactured homes              Tornadoes/                                                                                        The county performs
              are property installed and secured.           Thunderstorms,                                                                                      inspections on
                                                             Hurricane and                       Surry County          Surry County                             manufactured homes to
    PP-4                                                        Coastal         Moderate            Building           Planning and                 2025        ensure they are properly
                                                               Hazards,                           Inspections          Development                              installed. This action will
                                                             Severe Winter                                                                                      need to be continued
                                                               Weather                                                                                          going forward.



Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:143
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Ensure all residential construction                                                                                                               The county is working to
              conforms with latest wind-resistance            Tornadoes/                                                                                        ensure that all residential
              standards.                                    Thunderstorms,                                                                                      construction is consistent
                                                             Hurricane and                                                                                      with the latest wind
                                                                                                 Surry County          Surry County
                                                                Coastal                                                                                         standards. County officials
    PP-5                                                                        Moderate            Building           Planning and                 2025
                                                               Hazards,                                                                                         will continue to identify
                                                                                                  Inspections          Development
                                                             Severe Winter                                                                                      structures that are in non-
                                                               Weather                                                                                          conformance and work
                                                                                                                                                                with citizens to ensure
                                                                                                                                                                compliance.
              Retrofit emergency operations                                                                                                                     Some critical facilities have
              centers and critical facilities.                                                                                                                  been retrofitted to protect
                                                                                                                                                                against hazards, but many
    PP-6                                                           All             High        City of Mt. Airy       City of Mt. Airy              2025
                                                                                                                                                                critical facilities remain
                                                                                                                                                                unmitigated and will need
                                                                                                                                                                to be addressed.
                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Coordinate efforts in regards to                                                 NC Cooperative                                                   The county has
              equipment and manpower to unload                                                 Extension, Surry                                                 coordinated efforts on
                                                                                                                      NC Cooperative
     ES-1     hay and other agriculture products                Drought         Moderate           County                                           2025        equipment in the past and
                                                                                                                        Extension
              delivered by aircraft, trucks, and                                                 Emergency                                                      will continue that effort in
              trains.                                                                           Management                                                      the event of a drought.
              Procure water trailers for                                                        Mt. Airy Public                                                 In the past, water trailers
                                                                                                                      Mt. Airy Public
              communities with dry or                                                              Services                                                     were procured when
                                                                                                                        Services
              contaminated wells.                                                               Department,                                                     needed to address
     ES-2                                                       Drought         Moderate                            Department, Surry               2025
                                                                                                Surry County                                                    dry/contaminate wells.
                                                                                                                    County Health and
                                                                                                 Health and                                                     This will continue to be the
                                                                                                                        Nutrition
                                                                                                  Nutrition                                                     case going forward.
              Decrease the time for evacuation.                                                 Surry County                                                    The county has attempted
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      to decrease evacuation
                                                                                                Management,                                                     times in the past, but this
                                                                                                     Law                                                        is an effort that will
     ES-3                                                          All             High                               City of Mt. Airy              2025
                                                                                                Enforcement,                                                    continue to be pursued to
                                                                                                Mt. Airy Public                                                 reduce times even further.
                                                                                                   Services
                                                                                                 Department




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:144
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Improve areas where evacuation may                                                                                                                The county has taken
              be impeded.                                                                       Surry County                                                    action in some locations
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      where bottlenecks might
                                                                                                Management,                                                     occur and has worked to
                                                                                                     Law                                                        develop a plan to keep
     ES-4                                                          All             High                               City of Mt. Airy              2025
                                                                                                Enforcement,                                                    evacuation moving
                                                                                                Mt. Airy Public                                                 smoothly. However, as in
                                                                                                  Services                                                      E-3, the county will
                                                                                                 Department                                                     continue to try to reduce
                                                                                                                                                                its evacuation times.
              Coordinate early warning flash flood                                                                                                              The county has worked
              systems with Virginia counties that                                                                                                               with upstream VA counties
              are upstream of County tributaries.                                                                                                               to provide advanced flash
                                                                                                                       Surry County
                                                                                                 Surry County                                                   flood warnings. Continued
                                                                                                                        Emergency
     ES-5                                                          All          Moderate          Emergency                                         2025        coordination will be
                                                                                                                       Management,
                                                                                                 Management                                                     required on this and the
                                                                                                                         NCDEM
                                                                                                                                                                county will work to
                                                                                                                                                                improve warning systems
                                                                                                                                                                overall.
              Monitor and evaluated response time                                                                                                               The city has monitored
              of critical facilities and emergency          Flooding,                                                                                           response time of critical
                                                                                                Mt. Airy Public        Mt. Airy Public
              vehicles.                                     Geological                                                                                          facilities and emergency
     ES-6                                                                                         Services               Services                   2025
                                                            Hazards                                                                                             vehicles and will continue
                                                                                                 Department             Department
                                                            (Landslides)                                                                                        to look at ways to improve
                                                                                                                                                                these going forward.
              Install and frequently update                                                                                                                     The city constantly
              precipitation gauges and flood                Flooding,                                                                                           monitors precipitation
                                                                                                 Surry County          Surry County
              monitoring equipment along                    Geological                                                                                          gauges but it will look to
     ES-7                                                                                         Emergency             Emergency                   2025
              tributaries.                                  Hazards                                                                                             invest in greater
                                                                                                 Management            Management
                                                            (Landslides)                                                                                        infrastructure going
                                                                                                                                                                forward.
              Make sure that all community                                                                                                                      The county regularly
              warning sirens and warning systems                                                                                                                inspects all warning sirens
              are in proper working condition.                                                   Surry County          Surry County                             and systems to ensure
     ES-8                                                          All             High           Emergency             Emergency                   2025        they will be ready for a
                                                                                                 Management            Management                               disaster event. The city will
                                                                                                                                                                continue inspect these
                                                                                                                                                                systems going forward.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:145
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Communicate with other                                                                                                                               The county has taken the
              cities/counties to facilitate emergency                                                                                                              lead in the past to
                                                                                                Surry County          Surry County
              response and recovery.                                                                                                                               coordinate on response
                                                                                                 Emergency             Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                   and recovery activities
                                                                                                Management,          Management, Mt.
     ES-9                                                          All          Moderate                                                             2025          with municipalities and it is
                                                                                                Mt. Airy Public        Airy Public
                                                                                                                                                                   in constant coordination
                                                                                                  Services              Services
                                                                                                                                                                   with other counties. This
                                                                                                 Department            Department
                                                                                                                                                                   will continue to be a
                                                                                                                                                                   priority in the future.
              Train fire fighters with the latest fire                                                                                                             Although firefighters have
              fighting techniques and equip them                                                                                                                   been well trained and
              with the most up to date equipment.                                                                                                                  equipped in the past, there
                                                                                                 Mt. Airy Fire          Mt. Airy Fire
    ES-10                                                       Wildfire        Moderate                                                             2025          is a constant need for
                                                                                                 Department             Department
                                                                                                                                                                   additional training and
                                                                                                                                                                   resources, so this will be
                                                                                                                                                                   pursued going forward.
              Establish a housing numbering system                                                                                                                 The county completed its
              and ensure that the numbers are                                                                                                                      re-addressing in 2000 but
                                                                                                                       Surry County
              visible from the road.                                                                                                              2025, Annual     it will need to be updated
    ES-11                                                       Wildfire           Low         E-911 Program            Emergency
                                                                                                                                               review and update   on a consistent basis and
                                                                                                                       Management
                                                                                                                                                                   re-evaluated for an update
                                                                                                                                                                   in the future.
              Coordinate responses between each                                                                                                                    The county has
              of the city’s fire departments.                                                                                                                      coordinated response
                                                                                                                                                                   within each of its fire
                                                                                                 Mt. Airy Fire          Mt. Airy Fire
    ES-12                                                       Wildfire        Moderate                                                             2025          departments and will
                                                                                                 Department             Department
                                                                                                                                                                   continue to ensure
                                                                                                                                                                   coordination is
                                                                                                                                                                   maintained.
              Post warning signs in communities                                                                                                                    When wildfire risk has
              during times when wildfire danger                                                                                                                    been high in the past, the
              may be imminent.                                                                                                                                     county has posted warning
    ES-13                                                       Wildfire        Moderate            NCDFR                  NCDFR                     2025          signs to let residents know
                                                                                                                                                                   their risk level. This action
                                                                                                                                                                   will be continued in the
                                                                                                                                                                   future.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:146
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation           Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule               Status (2025)
              Monitor future wildfires so that                                                                                                                      The county has monitored
              response times are evaluated and                                                                                                                      past fires which has helped
              determine the amount of progress                                                                                                                      them determine response
                                                                                                 Surry County          Surry County
              made during each fire.                                                                                                                                times. This information will
    ES-14                                                       Wildfire           Low            Emergency             Emergency                    2025
                                                                                                                                                                    continue to be collected
                                                                                                 Management            Management
                                                                                                                                                                    and will be integrated to
                                                                                                                                                                    help make better
                                                                                                                                                                    judgments in the future.
              Keep primary transportation routes                                                                                                                    The county has worked to
              clear for emergency traffic and needs.                                                                                                                keep primary
                                                                                                                                                                    transportation routes
                                                                                                Mt. Airy Public        Mt. Airy Public
                                                                                                                                                                    cleared in case they are
    ES-15                                                    Severe Winter         High           Services               Services                    2025
                                                                                                                                                                    needed for emergency
                                                             Weather                             Department             Department
                                                                                                                                                                    traffic. This action will
                                                                                                                                                                    continue to be pursued by
                                                                                                                                                                    the county.
              Equip all essential City emergency or                                                                                                                 The county has equipped
              non-emergency vehicles with proper                                                                                                                    many of its vehicles with
              equipment to navigate severe winter                                                                                                                   the necessary equipment
              weather events.                                                                   Mt. Airy Public        Mt. Airy Public                              to navigate severe winter
    ES-16                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate          Services               Services                    2025           weather. However, some
                                                             Weather                             Department             Department                                  vehicles are not fully
                                                                                                                                                                    equipped and the county
                                                                                                                                                                    will work to ensure
                                                                                                                                                                    adequate resources.
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Create a mandatory water                                                                                                                              The county has
              conservation radiance to enforce, if                                              Surry County           Surry County                                 implemented a mandatory
              necessary.                                                                        Planning and           Planning and                                 water conservation
                                                                                                                                                2025, implement
                                                                                                Development,           Development,                                 ordinance in the past when
    PEA-1                                                       Drought         Moderate                                                         when drought
                                                                                                Surry County             Disaster                                   drought conditions
                                                                                                                                               conditions require
                                                                                                 Health and             Declaration                                 persisted. The county will
                                                                                                  Nutrition               Funding                                   continue to do this when
                                                                                                                                                                    required.
              Listing of local radio and TV stations                                                                                                                This list has been created
              which will broadcast local weather                                                 Surry County          Surry County                                 and so the action is
    PEA-2     and emergency information.                        Drought         Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                 Completed         complete. This will be
                                                                                                 Management            Management                                   removed from the next
                                                                                                                                                                    update as a capability.


Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:147
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation         Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule             Status (2025)
              Monitor and evaluate public response            Tornadoes/                                                                                          Coordinate with PEA-4 and
              to flood information.                         Thunderstorms,                         Mt. Airy                                    See schedule for   see Implementation Status
    PEA-3                                                                       Moderate                             Mt. Airy Planning
                                                             Hurricane and                         Planning                                         PEA-4         above
                                                                Coastal
                                                               Hazards,
                                                             Severe Winter
                                                               Weather
              Increase awareness through all                                                                                                                      The county has worked to
              hazards awareness program at                                                                                                                        increase awareness
              cooperative extension office and                                                                                                                    through programs at the
              distribution of materials at                                                     NC Cooperative                                                     cooperative extension and
                                                                                                                      NC Cooperative
              government centers.                                                              Extension, Surry                                                   has distributed materials
                                                                                                                     Extension, Surry
    PEA-4                                                          All          Moderate       County Planning                                      2025          via many government
                                                                                                                     County Planning
                                                                                                     and                                                          locations. However, these
                                                                                                                     and Development
                                                                                                Development                                                       materials and programs
                                                                                                                                                                  will need to be reviewed,
                                                                                                                                                                  so this action will remain in
                                                                                                                                                                  the plan.
              Monitor and evaluate public response            Tornadoes/                                                                                          Coordinate with PEA-4 and
                                                                                                 Surry County          Surry County
              to high wind information.                     Thunderstorms,                                                                     See schedule for   see Implementation Status
    PEA-5                                                                       Moderate          Emergency             Emergency
                                                             Hurricane and                                                                          PEA-4         above
                                                                                                 Management            Management
                                                                Coastal
                                                               Hazards,
                                                             Severe Winter
                                                               Weather
              Distribute educational material to the                                                                                                              Coordinate with PEA-4 and
                                                                                                 Mt. Airy Fire          Mt. Airy Fire          See schedule for
    PEA-6     public to simulate wildfire awareness             Wildfire        Moderate                                                                          see Implementation Status
                                                                                                 Department             Department                  PEA-4
              and prevention.                                                                                                                                     above
              Monitor and evaluate public response                                                                                                                Coordinate with PEA-4 and
                                                                                                 Mt. Airy Fire          Mt. Airy Fire          See schedule for
    PEA-7     to wildfire information.                          Wildfire        Moderate                                                                          see Implementation Status
                                                                                                 Department             Department                  PEA-4
                                                                                                                                                                  above
              Educate on proper winterizing of                                                   Surry County          Surry County                               Coordinate with PEA-4 and
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
    PEA-8     homes.                                         Severe Winter      Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                                 see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-4
                                                             Weather                             Management            Management                                 above
              Educate on proper emergency heating                                                Surry County          Surry County                               Coordinate with PEA-4 and
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
    PEA-9     equipment.                                     Severe Winter      Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                                 see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-4
                                                             Weather                             Management            Management                                 above




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                   9:148
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation         Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule             Status (2025)
              Educate on winter weather disaster                                                 Surry County          Surry County                               Coordinate with PEA-4 and
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-10     supplies.                                      Severe Winter      Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                                 see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-4
                                                             Weather                             Management            Management                                 above
              Educate on several days’ supply of                                                 Surry County          Surry County                               Coordinate with PEA-4 and
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-11     non-perishable food.                           Severe Winter      Moderate          Emergency             Emergency                                 see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-4
                                                             Weather                             Management            Management                                 above
              Educate on checking smoke alarms                                                                                                                    Coordinate with PEA-4 and
                                                                                                 Mt Airy. Fire          Mt Airy. Fire          See schedule for
   PEA-12     and fire extinguishers.                        Severe Winter      Moderate                                                                          see Implementation Status
                                                                                                 Department             Department                  PEA-4
                                                             Weather                                                                                              above
              Inform and educate the citizens by                                                                                                                  Coordinate with PEA-4 and
              providing hazard and mitigation                                                                                                  See schedule for   see Implementation Status
   PEA-13                                                     Earthquake        Moderate       City of Mt. Airy       City of Mt. Airy
              information in public buildings and                                                                                                   PEA-4         above
              websites.
              Educate via classes on proper                                                                                                                       The county has provided
              retrofitting equipment.                                                                                                                             some education on
                                                                                                                                                                  earthquake retrofitting,
                                                                                                                                                                  but it would like to
   PEA-14                                                     Earthquake        Moderate       City of Mt. Airy       City of Mt. Airy              2025
                                                                                                                                                                  encourage more of this
                                                                                                                                                                  and so it will work to hold
                                                                                                                                                                  more classes going
                                                                                                                                                                  forward.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:149
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Pilot Mountain Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              Develop a comprehensive Capital                                                                                                                   The county has not yet
              Improvements Plan.                                                                                                                                developed a
                                                                                                Town of Pilot                                                   comprehensive CIP,
                                                                                               Mountain, Surry         Surry County                             although it has undertaken
     P-2                                                           All             High        County Planning         Planning and                 2025        some capital projects. The
                                                                                                    and                Development                              county will continue to
                                                                                                Development                                                     work to develop a
                                                                                                                                                                comprehensive CIP going
                                                                                                                                                                forward.
              Adopt a Storm Water Management                                                                                                                    The county has not yet
                                                            Flooding,                           Town of Pilot
              Ordinance or Plan                                                                                        Surry County                             adopted a Stormwater
                                                            Geological                           Mountain,
     P-3                                                                           High                                Planning and                 2025        Management Ordinance or
                                                            Hazards                            Board of County
                                                                                                                       Development                              Plan. This will continue to
                                                            (Landslides)                       Commissioners
                                                                                                                                                                be a goal in the future.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:150
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Require that structural features are                                                                                                              The county has attempted
              manufactured and installed in such a            Tornadoes/                                                                                        to identify structures that
              way that the hazardous effect of wind         Thunderstorms,                                                                                      are constructed in a way
              borne debris is limited.                       Hurricane and                      Town of Pilot                                                   that contributes to wind
                                                                                                                       Surry County
                                                                Coastal                        Mountain, Surry                                                  borne debris. Although
     P-5                                                                        Moderate                               Planning and                 2025
                                                               Hazards,                        County Building                                                  many cases have been
                                                                                                                       Development
                                                             Severe Winter                       Inspections                                                    identified and rectified,
                                                               Weather                                                                                          there is still significant
                                                                                                                                                                work to be completed on
                                                                                                                                                                this action.
              Develop a wildfire management plan                                                Town of Pilot                                                   A wildfire management
              including clear objectives. The plan                                                Mountain,                                                     plan is in progress of being
                                                                                                                       NCDFR, USFS,
              should include degree of fire risk and                                            NCDFR, USFS,                                                    developed but the plan is
     P-6                                                        Wildfire        Moderate                             Surry County Fire              2025
              wildfire history of county.                                                       Surry County                                                    not complete, so
                                                                                                                      Marshal’s Office
                                                                                                Fire Marshal’s                                                  additional work will need
                                                                                                    Office                                                      to be completed.
              Make available all necessary                                                                                                                      Although many resources
              resources for fire management                                                     Town of Pilot                                                   are available for fire
              planning at all levels.                                                          Mountain, Surry                                                  management planning,
                                                                                                                        Local, State,
     P-7                                                        Wildfire        Moderate          County                                            2025        additional resources would
                                                                                                                          Federal
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                      be useful and an ongoing
                                                                                                Management                                                      task will be to pursue more
                                                                                                                                                                resources.
                                                                                       Property Protection
              Encourage low-interest loans to                                                                                                                   The county has
              farmers from the State to assist with                                                                                                             encouraged low interest
              the effects of a drought.                                                                                                                         loans from the state and
                                                                                               Board of County         Surry County
    PP-1                                                        Drought            Low                                                              2025        will continue to advocate
                                                                                               Commissioners           Government
                                                                                                                                                                for those to be available
                                                                                                                                                                during/after a drought
                                                                                                                                                                event.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:151
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Review of public and private services                                                                                                             Generally, the county
              for improvements while relocating                                                                                                                 has worked to relocate
              infrastructure away from flood prone                                                                                                              infrastructure away from
                                                                                                Town of Pilot
              areas.                                                                                                                                            flood prone areas.
                                                                                               Mountain, Surry
                                                            Flooding,                                                                                           However, there are still
    PP-3                                                                           High        County Planning              Local                   2025
                                                            Geological                                                                                          areas where infrastructure
                                                                                                    and
                                                            Hazards                                                                                             is located in flood prone
                                                                                                Development
                                                            (Landslides)                                                                                        areas and the county will
                                                                                                                                                                work to address those
                                                                                                                                                                areas.
              Installation of manufactured homes                                                                                                                The county performs
              are property installed and secured.             Tornadoes/                                                                                        inspections on
                                                                                                Town of Pilot
                                                            Thunderstorms,                                             Surry County                             manufactured homes to
                                                                                               Mountain, Surry
    PP-4                                                     Hurricane and      Moderate                               Planning and                 2025        ensure they are properly
                                                                                               County Building
                                                                Coastal                                                Development                              installed. This action will
                                                                                                 Inspections
                                                               Hazards,                                                                                         need to be continued
                                                             Severe Winter                                                                                      going forward.
                                                               Weather
              Ensure all residential construction                                                                                                               The county is working to
              conforms with latest wind-resistance                                                                                                              ensure that all residential
              standards.                                      Tornadoes/                                                                                        construction is consistent
                                                            Thunderstorms,                      Town of Pilot                                                   with the latest wind
                                                             Hurricane and                                             Surry County
                                                                                               Mountain, Surry                                                  standards. County officials
    PP-5                                                        Coastal         Moderate                               Planning and                 2025
                                                                                               County Building                                                  will continue to identify
                                                               Hazards,                                                Development
                                                                                                 Inspections                                                    structures that are in non-
                                                             Severe Winter                                                                                      conformance and work
                                                               Weather                                                                                          with citizens to ensure
                                                                                                                                                                compliance.
              Retrofit emergency operations                                                                                                                     Some critical facilities have
              centers and critical facilities.                                                                                                                  been retrofitted to protect
                                                                                                Town of Pilot
                                                                                                                                                                against hazards, but many
    PP-6                                                           All             High        Mountain, Surry         Surry County                 2025
                                                                                                                                                                critical facilities remain
                                                                                                  County
                                                                                                                                                                unmitigated and will need
                                                                                                                                                                to be addressed.
                                                                                       Emergency Services




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:152
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Coordinate efforts in regards to                                                  Town of Pilot                                                   The county has
              equipment and manpower to unload                                                  Mountain, NC                                                    coordinated efforts on
              hay and other agriculture products                                                 Cooperative                                                    equipment in the past and
                                                                                                                      NC Cooperative
     ES-1     delivered by aircraft, trucks, and                Drought         Moderate       Extension, Surry                                     2025        will continue that effort in
                                                                                                                        Extension
              trains.                                                                              County                                                       the event of a drought.
                                                                                                 Emergency
                                                                                                Management
              Procure water trailers for                                                        Town of Pilot                                                   In the past, water trailers
              communities with dry or                                                          Mountain, Surry         Surry County                             were procured when
              contaminated wells.                                                                  County               Emergency                               needed to address
                                                                                                 Emergency             Management,                              dry/contaminate wells.
     ES-2                                                       Drought         Moderate                                                            2025
                                                                                                Management,            Surry County                             This will continue to be the
                                                                                                Surry County            Health and                              case going forward.
                                                                                                 Health and              Nutrition
                                                                                                  Nutrition
              Decrease the time for evacuation.                                                 Town of Pilot                                                   The county has attempted
                                                                                               Mountain, Surry                                                  to decrease evacuation
                                                                                                                      Surry County
                                                                                                   County                                                       times in the past, but this
                                                                                                                       Emergency
     ES-3                                                          All             High          Emergency                                          2025        is an effort that will
                                                                                                                    Management, Law
                                                                                                Management,                                                     continue to be pursued to
                                                                                                                      Enforcement
                                                                                                    Law                                                         reduce times even further.
                                                                                                Enforcement
              Improve areas where evacuation may                                                                                                                The county has taken
              be impeded.                                                                                                                                       action in some locations
                                                                                                Town of Pilot
                                                                                                                                                                where bottlenecks might
                                                                                               Mountain, Surry
                                                                                                                                                                occur and has worked to
                                                                                                  County               Surry County
                                                                                                                                                                develop a plan to keep
     ES-4                                                          All             High          Emergency              Emergency                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                evacuation moving
                                                                                                Management,            Management
                                                                                                                                                                smoothly. However, as in
                                                                                                    Law
                                                                                                                                                                E-3, the county will
                                                                                                Enforcement
                                                                                                                                                                continue to try to reduce
                                                                                                                                                                its evacuation times.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:153
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Coordinate early warning flash flood                                                                                                                 The county has worked
              systems with Virginia counties that                                                                                                                  with upstream VA counties
              are upstream of County tributaries.                                               Town of Pilot                                                      to provide advanced flash
                                                                                                                       Surry County
                                                                                               Mountain, Surry                                                     flood warnings. Continued
                                                                                                                        Emergency
     ES-5                                                          All          Moderate          County                                             2025          coordination will be
                                                                                                                       Management,
                                                                                                 Emergency                                                         required on this and the
                                                                                                                         NCDEM
                                                                                                Management                                                         county will work to
                                                                                                                                                                   improve warning systems
                                                                                                                                                                   overall.
              Make sure that all community                                                                                                                         The county regularly
              warning sirens and warning systems                                                Town of Pilot                                                      inspects all warning sirens
              are in proper working condition.                                                 Mountain, Surry         Surry County                                and systems to ensure
     ES-6                                                          All             High           County                Emergency                    2025          they will be ready for a
                                                                                                 Emergency             Management                                  disaster event. The city will
                                                                                                Management                                                         continue inspect these
                                                                                                                                                                   systems going forward.
              Communicate with other                                                                                                                               The county has taken the
              cities/counties to facilitate emergency                                                                                                              lead in the past to
              response and recovery.                                                            Town of Pilot                                                      coordinate on response
                                                                                               Mountain, Surry         Surry County                                and recovery activities
     ES-7                                                          All          Moderate          County                Emergency                    2025          with municipalities and it is
                                                                                                 Emergency             Management                                  in constant coordination
                                                                                                Management                                                         with other counties. This
                                                                                                                                                                   will continue to be a
                                                                                                                                                                   priority in the future.
              Train fire fighters with the latest fire                                                                                                             Although firefighters have
              fighting techniques and equip them                                                Town of Pilot                                                      been well trained and
              with the most up to date equipment.                                              Mountain, Surry                                                     equipped in the past, there
     ES-8                                                       Wildfire        Moderate         County Fire                Local                    2025          is a constant need for
                                                                                                  Marshal’s                                                        additional training and
                                                                                                Office, NCDFR                                                      resources, so this will be
                                                                                                                                                                   pursued going forward.
              Establish a housing numbering system                                                                                                                 The county completed its
                                                                                                Town of Pilot
              and ensure that the numbers are                                                                                                                      re-addressing in 2000 but
                                                                                               Mountain, Surry         Surry County
              visible from the road.                                                                                                              2025, Annual     it will need to be updated
     ES-9                                                       Wildfire           Low            County                Emergency
                                                                                                                                               review and update   on a consistent basis and
                                                                                                 Emergency             Management
                                                                                                                                                                   re-evaluated for an update
                                                                                                Management
                                                                                                                                                                   in the future.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:154
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
              Coordinate responses between each                                                                                                                 The county has
              of the county’s fire departments.                                                                                                                 coordinated response
                                                                                                Town of Pilot
                                                                                                                                                                within each of its fire
                                                                                               Mountain, Surry       Surry County Fire
    ES-10                                                       Wildfire        Moderate                                                            2025        departments and will
                                                                                                 County Fire          Marshal’s Office
                                                                                                                                                                continue to ensure
                                                                                               Marshal’s Office
                                                                                                                                                                coordination is
                                                                                                                                                                maintained.
              Post warning signs in communities                                                                                                                 When wildfire risk has
              during times when wildfire danger                                                                                                                 been high in the past, the
              may be imminent.                                                                                                                                  county has posted warning
    ES-11                                                       Wildfire        Moderate            NCDFR                  NCDFR                    2025        signs to let residents know
                                                                                                                                                                their risk level. This action
                                                                                                                                                                will be continued in the
                                                                                                                                                                future.
              Monitor future wildfires so that                                                                                                                  The county has monitored
              response times are evaluated and                                                                                                                  past fires which has helped
                                                                                                Town of Pilot
              determine the amount of progress                                                                                                                  them determine response
                                                                                               Mountain, Surry         Surry County
              made during each fire.                                                                                                                            times. This information will
    ES-12                                                       Wildfire           Low            County                Emergency                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                continue to be collected
                                                                                                 Emergency             Management
                                                                                                                                                                and will be integrated to
                                                                                                Management
                                                                                                                                                                help make better
                                                                                                                                                                judgments in the future.
              Keep primary transportation routes                                                                                                                The county has worked to
              clear for emergency traffic and needs.                                                                                                            keep primary
                                                                                                                                                                transportation routes
                                                                                                 NCDOT, Law            NCDOT, Law                               cleared in case they are
    ES-13                                                    Severe Winter         High                                                             2025
                                                                                                 Enforcement           Enforcement                              needed for emergency
                                                             Weather
                                                                                                                                                                traffic. This action will
                                                                                                                                                                continue to be pursued by
                                                                                                                                                                the county.
              Equip all essential County emergency                                                                                                              The county has equipped
              or non-emergency vehicles with                                                                                                                    many of its vehicles with
                                                                                                Town of Pilot
              proper equipment to navigate severe                                                                                                               the necessary equipment
                                                                                               Mountain, Each        Each Surry County
              winter weather events.                                                                                                                            to navigate severe winter
                                                                                                Surry County           Department is
    ES-14                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate                                                            2025        weather. However, some
                                                                                               Department is         responsible for its
                                                             Weather                                                                                            vehicles are not fully
                                                                                               responsible for            vehicles
                                                                                                                                                                equipped and the county
                                                                                                 its vehicles
                                                                                                                                                                will work to ensure
                                                                                                                                                                adequate resources.


Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                 9:155
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)         Relative    Lead Agency/      Potential                        Implementation           Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed         Priority     Department    Funding Sources                        Schedule               Status (2025)
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Distribute educational material to the                                            Town of Pilot                                                       The county has developed
              public to stimulate drought                                                       Mountain, NC                                                        a number of educational
              awareness.                                                                         Cooperative                                                        materials and brochures
                                                                                                                      NC Cooperative
                                                                                               Extension, Surry                                                     for the public to utilize, but
                                                                                                                     Extension, Surry
    PEA-1                                                          All          Moderate       County Planning                                       2025           these may need to be
                                                                                                                     County Planning
                                                                                                     and                                                            updated and will need to
                                                                                                                     and Development
                                                                                                Development,                                                        be reviewed so this action
                                                                                                Surry County                                                        will remain in the plan.
                                                                                                Public Works
              Increase awareness through drought                                                                                                                    The county has worked to
              awareness program at cooperative                                                                                                                      increase awareness
              extension office and distribution of                                              Town of Pilot                                                       through programs at the
              materials at government centers.                                                  Mountain, NC                                                        cooperative extension and
                                                                                                                      NC Cooperative
                                                                                                 Cooperative                                                        has distributed materials
                                                                                                                     Extension, Surry
    PEA-2                                                          All          Moderate       Extension, Surry                                      2025           via many government
                                                                                                                     County Planning
                                                                                               County Planning                                                      locations. However, these
                                                                                                                     and Development
                                                                                                     and                                                            materials and programs
                                                                                                Development                                                         will need to be reviewed,
                                                                                                                                                                    so this action will remain in
                                                                                                                                                                    the plan.
              Create a mandatory water                                                          Town of Pilot                                                       The county has
              conservation ordinance to enforce, if                                            Mountain, Surry         Surry County                                 implemented a mandatory
              necessary.                                                                       County Planning         Planning and                                 water conservation
                                                                                                                                                2025, implement
                                                                                                     and               Development,                                 ordinance in the past when
    PEA-3                                                       Drought         Moderate                                                         when drought
                                                                                                Development,             Disaster                                   drought conditions
                                                                                                                                               conditions require
                                                                                                Surry County            Declaration                                 persisted. The county will
                                                                                                 Health and               Funding                                   continue to do this when
                                                                                                  Nutrition                                                         required.
              Increase awareness through flood                                                 NC Cooperative                                                       Coordinate with PEA-2 and
                                                            Flooding,
              awareness program at local schools                                               Extension, Surry                                                     see Implementation Status
                                                            Geological                                                NC Cooperative           See schedule for
    PEA-5     and distribution of materials at                                  Moderate       County Planning                                                      above
                                                            Hazards                                                     Extension                   PEA-2
              government centers.                                                                    and
                                                            (Landslides)
                                                                                                Development




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                     9:156
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation         Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule             Status (2025)
              Increase awareness through high wind            Tornadoes/                        Town of Pilot                                                     Coordinate with PEA-2 and
              awareness program at local schools            Thunderstorms,                     Mountain, Surry         Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
    PEA-6     and distribution of materials at               Hurricane and      Moderate          County                Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-2
              government centers.                               Coastal                          Emergency             Management
                                                               Hazards,                         Management
                                                             Severe Winter
                                                               Weather

              Monitor and evaluate public response            Tornadoes/                        Town of Pilot                                                     Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              to high wind information.                     Thunderstorms,                     Mountain, Surry         Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
    PEA-7                                                    Hurricane and      Moderate          County                Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                                Coastal                          Emergency             Management
                                                               Hazards,                         Management
                                                             Severe Winter
                                                               Weather

              Distribute educational material to the                                            Town of Pilot                                                     Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              public to simulate wildfire awareness                                            Mountain, Surry                                                    see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                     Surry County Fire
              and prevention.                                                                    County Fire                                                      above
                                                                                                                     Marshal’s Office,
                                                                                                  Marshal’s                                    See schedule for
    PEA-8                                                       Wildfire        Moderate                               Surry County
                                                                                                Office, Surry                                       PEA-1
                                                                                                                        Emergency
                                                                                                   County
                                                                                                                       Management
                                                                                                 Emergency
                                                                                                Management
              Increase awareness through wildfire                                               Town of Pilot                                                     Coordinate with PEA-2 and
              awareness program at local schools                                               Mountain, Surry         Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
    PEA-9     and distribution of materials at                  Wildfire        Moderate           County               Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-2
              government centers.                                                                Emergency             Management
                                                                                                Management
              Monitor and evaluate public response                                              Town of Pilot                                                     Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              to wildfire information.                                                         Mountain, Surry         Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-10                                                       Wildfire        Moderate           County               Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                                                                 Emergency             Management
                                                                                                Management
              Educate on proper winterizing of                                                  Town of Pilot                                                     Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              homes.                                                                           Mountain, Surry         Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-11                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate           County               Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                             Weather                             Emergency             Management
                                                                                                Management



Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:157
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation         Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule             Status (2025)
              Educate on proper emergency heating                                               Town of Pilot                                                     Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              equipment.                                                                       Mountain, Surry         Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-12                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate           County               Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                             Weather                             Emergency             Management
                                                                                                Management
              Educate on winter weather disaster                                                Town of Pilot                                                     Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              supplies.                                                                        Mountain, Surry         Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-13                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate           County               Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                             Weather                             Emergency             Management
                                                                                                Management
              Educate on several days’ supply of                                                Town of Pilot                                                     Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              non-perishable food.                                                             Mountain, Surry         Surry County                               see Implementation Status
                                                                                                                                               See schedule for
   PEA-14                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate           County               Emergency                                 above
                                                                                                                                                    PEA-1
                                                             Weather                             Emergency             Management
                                                                                                Management
              Educate on checking smoke alarms                                                  Town of Pilot                                                     Coordinate with PEA-1 and
              and fire extinguishers.                                                          Mountain, Surry       Surry County Fire         See schedule for   see Implementation Status
   PEA-15                                                    Severe Winter      Moderate
                                                                                                 County Fire          Marshal’s Office              PEA-1         above
                                                             Weather
                                                                                               Marshal’s Office
              Inform and educate the citizens by                                                                                                                  Coordinate with PEA-1 and
                                                                                                Town of Pilot
              providing hazard and mitigation                                                                                                  See schedule for   see Implementation Status
   PEA-16                                                     Earthquake        Moderate       Mountain, Surry         Surry County
              information in public buildings and                                                                                                   PEA-1         above
                                                                                                  County
              websites.
              Educate via classes on proper                                                                                                                       The county has provided
              retrofitting equipment.                                                                                                                             some education on
                                                                                                                                                                  earthquake retrofitting,
                                                                                                Town of Pilot
                                                                                                                                                                  but it would like to
   PEA-17                                                     Earthquake        Moderate       Mountain, Surry         Surry County                 2025
                                                                                                                                                                  encourage more of this
                                                                                                  County
                                                                                                                                                                  and so it will work to hold
                                                                                                                                                                  more classes going
                                                                                                                                                                  forward.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:158
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                              9:159
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Yadkin County Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule             Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                               Mitigation objectives
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                      will be reviewed at all
                                                                                                Yadkin County
              objectives.                                                                                                                                        Land Use Plan Meetings
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate         Planning and               Local                   2025
                                                                                                    Zoning


              Update the Subdivision Ordinance by                                                                                                               Continue work on the
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                                Yadkin County                                                   Subdivision Ordinance.
     P-3      mitigation objectives.                               All          Moderate         Planning and               Local                   2025
                                                                                                    Zoning

              Review and revise the Planning                                                                                                                     Although clustering of
              Ordinance to allow for clustering of                                                                                                               development is allowed
              residential lots.                                                                                                                                  through the group
                                                                                                Yadkin County
                                                                                                                                                                 development article of the
     P-4                                                        Flooding        Moderate         Planning and               Local                   2025
                                                                                                                                                                 Planning Ordinance, the
                                                                                                    Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                 county will work to further
                                                                                                                                                                 encourage cluster
                                                                                                                                                                 development in the future.
              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                   Floodplain maps are
              floodplain maps.                                                                                                                                   being reviewed.
                                                                                                Yadkin County
                                                                                                                          Federal
     P-5                                                        Flooding           High          Planning and                                       2025
                                                                                                                           State
                                                                                                    Zoning




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:160
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule            Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                              The county has
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                               implemented inspections
              buildings that have been submerged                                                                                                                of flood damaged
              for any length of time will be                                                                                                                    structures in the past
              inspected for flood related damage as                                                                                                             utilizing the method
              well as other conditions that may be                                                                                                              outlined. This action will
              dangerous to life, health or other                                                                                                                continue to be
              property. Plan for Damaged                                                                                                                        implemented going
              Structures:                                                                                                                                       forward as required when
              1. Overall damage assessment/data                                                                                                                 flooding damages
                   collection (visual inspection from                                                                                               2025        structures. When this
                   roadways).                                                                   Yadkin County                                                   occurs, the policy will be
     P-6      2. Data compiled and geographical                 Flooding           High            Building                 Local                               re-evaluated to determine
                   areas assigned to teams.                                                      Inspections                                                    if changes are necessary.
              3. Second detailed assessment by
                   area teams.
              4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                   etc. that have been exposed to
                   water will be opened for
                   evaluation.
              5. All construction that is repaired,
                   replaced, dried or sealed will be
                   inspected before covered.
              6. Structure inspected for certificate
                   of compliance.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:161
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation            Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule                 Status (2025)
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                    The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                      implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                             related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                             the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                  method outlined. This
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                   Yadkin County                                                    action will continue to be
                                                                                                                                               2025, Review and
     P-7      necessary while collecting damage                    All             High            Building                 Local                                implemented going
                                                                                                                                               update post-event
              assessment data; 3) conduct                                                        Inspections                                                     forward as required when
              inspections on first come, first serve                                                                                                             utilities are damaged.
              basis; 4) work overtime to expedite                                                                                                                When this occurs, the
              utility reconnections.                                                                                                                             policy will be re-evaluated
                                                                                                                                                                 to determine if changes are
                                                                                                                                                                 necessary.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:162
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule               Status (2025)
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                               Zoning maps are updated
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                                                                                     each time areas are re-
                                                                                                Yadkin County
              staff and public use.                                                                                                                                zoned and kept up to date.
     P-8                                                           All             High          Planning and               Local                    2025
                                                                                                    Zoning


                                                                                       Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             The county currently has a
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                               list of all repetitive loss
                                                                                                                                                                   properties, but that list will
                                                                                                Yadkin County                                                      need to be updated to
                                                                                                                                                  2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                         Flood          Moderate         Planning and               Local                                  ensure any repetitive loss
                                                                                                                                               review and update
                                                                                                    Zoning                                                         properties are on the radar
                                                                                                                                                                   of local officials and that
                                                                                                                                                                   mitigation strategies can
                                                                                                                                                                   be devised.
                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Ensure adequate evacuation warning                                                                                                                   In the 2020 budget a mass
              in case of major hazard event.                                                                                                                       notification system has
                                                                                                Yadkin County
                                                                                                                                               2025, In advance    been funded. It will be
     ES-1                                                          All             High          Emergency                  Local
                                                                                                                                                  of events        implemented after
                                                                                                   Services
                                                                                                                                                                   7/1/2019.

              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                      A new sheltering plan is
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                                                                                        being written along with
                                                                                                Yadkin County
                                                                                                                                                                   additional shelters are
     ES-2                                                    Severe Winter         High          Emergency                  Local                    2025
                                                                                                                                                                   being added. Old shelters
                                                             Weather                               Services
                                                                                                                                                                   are being removed.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:162
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



   Action                                                     Hazard(s)         Relative    Lead Agency/      Potential                        Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed         Priority     Department    Funding Sources                        Schedule             Status (2025)
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                   The county has placed
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                  education materials
              branches of the Yadkin County public                                                                                                               concerning hazards in all
              library system.                                                                                                                                    branches of the county
                                                                                                Yadkin County                                                    library, but this action will
    PEA-1                                                          All             High          Planning and               Local                   2025         need to be reviewed and
                                                                                                    Zoning                                                       revised as additional
                                                                                                                                                                 information is likely
                                                                                                                                                                 available and other
                                                                                                                                                                 outreach strategies will be
                                                                                                                                                                 explored.
              Ensure that the Planning Director is                                                                                                               The Yadkin County
              informed of erosion and                                                                                                                            Planning and Zoning
              sedimentation control methods and                                                                                                                  Director has received
              pushes this information out to the                                                                                                                 training on erosion and
              public.                                                                                                                                            sedimentation control
                                                                                                                                                                 methods and on floodplain
                                                                                                                                                                 surveying certification. On
                                                                                                                                                                 an annual basis, this
                                                                                                                                                                 official or his designee
                                                                                                                                                                 makes numerous site visits
                                                                                                Yadkin County
                                                                                                                                                                 to assist property owners
    PEA-2                                                       Flooding           High          Planning and               Local               2025, Annually
                                                                                                                                                                 and developers with
                                                                                                    Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                 problems and potential
                                                                                                                                                                 problems associated with
                                                                                                                                                                 drainage, erosion, and
                                                                                                                                                                 flooding. Site visits are
                                                                                                                                                                 made at the request of the
                                                                                                                                                                 property owner or
                                                                                                                                                                 developer and are usually
                                                                                                                                                                 handled through the
                                                                                                                                                                 Planning and Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                 Department.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:163
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Boonville Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              They will continue to be
                                                                                                   Town of
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     updated.
                                                                                                  Boonville,
              objectives.
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate        Yadkin County               Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning
              Update the Subdivision Ordinance by                                                  Town of                                                      This is being reviewed.
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                                  Boonville,
     P-3      mitigation objectives.                               All          Moderate        Yadkin County               Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning
              Review and revise the Planning                                                                                                                    This will continue.
              Ordinance to allow for clustering of
                                                                                                   Town of
              residential lots.
                                                                                                  Boonville,
     P-4                                                        Flooding        Moderate        Yadkin County               Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning


              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                  This is reviewed by the
              floodplain maps.                                                                     Town of                                                      county.
                                                                                                  Boonville,
                                                                                                                          Federal
     P-5                                                        Flooding           High         Yadkin County                                       2025
                                                                                                                           State
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:164
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                                 This will continue.
              Structures. Any and all portions of
              buildings that have been submerged
              for any length of time will be
              inspected for flood related damage as
              well as other conditions that may be
              dangerous to life, health or other
              property. Plan for Damaged
              Structures:
              1. Overall damage assessment/data
                    collection (visual inspection from                                             Town of
                    roadways).                                                                    Boonville,
                                                                                                                                               2025, Review and
     P-6      2. Data compiled and geographical                 Flooding           High         Yadkin County               Local
                                                                                                                                               update post-event
                    areas assigned to teams.                                                       Building
              3. Second detailed assessment by                                                   Inspections
                    area teams.
              4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                    etc. that have been exposed to
                    water will be opened for
                    evaluation.
              5. All construction that is repaired,
                    replaced, dried or sealed will be
                    inspected before covered.
              6. Structure inspected for
                    certificate of compliance.
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                     The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                        implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                               related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                               the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                    Town of                                                         method outlined. This
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                     Boonville,                                                       action will continue to be
                                                                                                                                               2025, Review and
     P-7      necessary while collecting damage                    All             High         Yadkin County               Local                                  implemented going
                                                                                                                                               update post-event
              assessment data; 3) conduct                                                          Building                                                        forward as required when
              inspections on first come, first serve                                             Inspections                                                       utilities are damaged.
              basis; 4) work overtime to expedite                                                                                                                  When this occurs, the
              utility reconnections.                                                                                                                               policy will be re-evaluated
                                                                                                                                                                   to determine if changes
                                                                                                                                                                   are necessary.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:165
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                               The county has created a
                                                                                                   Town of
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                                                                                     zoning map, but it will
                                                                                                  Boonville,
              staff and public use.                                                                                                                                need to be updated
     P-8                                                           All             High         Yadkin County               Local                    2025
                                                                                                                                                                   periodically in the future
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                                                                                   so this action will remain in
                                                                                                    Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                   place.
                                                                                       Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             The county currently has a
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                               list of all repetitive loss
                                                                                                   Town of                                                         properties, but that list will
                                                                                                  Boonville,                                                       need to be updated to
                                                                                                                                                  2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                        Flooding        Moderate        Yadkin County               Local                                  ensure any repetitive loss
                                                                                                                                               review and update
                                                                                                 Planning and                                                      properties are on the radar
                                                                                                    Zoning                                                         of local officials and that
                                                                                                                                                                   mitigation strategies can
                                                                                                                                                                   be devised.
                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Ensure adequate evacuation warning                                                                                                                   An advanced notification
                                                                                                   Town of
              in case of major hazard event.                                                                                                                       system is being
                                                                                                  Boonville,
                                                                                                                                               2025, In advance    implemented in the 2020
     ES-1                                                          All             High         Yadkin County               Local
                                                                                                                                                  of events        budget.
                                                                                                 Emergency
                                                                                                   Services
              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                      The sheltering annex in the
                                                                                                   Town of
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                                                                                        EOP is being updated to
                                                                                                  Boonville,
                                                                                                                                                                   reflect improvements.
     ES-2                                                    Severe Winter         High         Yadkin County               Local                    2025
                                                             Weather                             Emergency
                                                                                                   Services




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:166
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)         Relative    Lead Agency/      Potential                        Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed         Priority     Department    Funding Sources                        Schedule            Status (2025)
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                   The county has placed
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                  education materials
              branches of the Yadkin County public                                                                                                               concerning hazards in all
              library system.                                                                      Town of                                                       branches of the county
                                                                                                  Boonville,                                                     library, but this action will
    PEA-1                                                          All             High         Yadkin County               Local                   2025         need to be reviewed and
                                                                                                 Planning and                                                    revised as additional
                                                                                                    Zoning                                                       information is likely
                                                                                                                                                                 available and other
                                                                                                                                                                 outreach strategies will be
                                                                                                                                                                 explored.
              The Yadkin County Planning and                                                                                                                     The Yadkin County
              Zoning Director has received training                                                                                                              Planning and Zoning
              on erosion and sedimentation control                                                                                                               Director has received
              methods and on floodplain surveying                                                                                                                training on erosion and
              certification. On an annual basis, this                                                                                                            sedimentation control
              official or his designee makes                                                                                                                     methods and on floodplain
              numerous site visits to assist property                                                                                                            surveying certification. On
              owners and developers with problems                                                                                                                an annual basis, this
              and potential problems associated                                                                                                                  official or his designee
                                                                                                   Town of
              with drainage, erosion, and flooding.                                                                                                              makes numerous site visits
                                                                                                  Boonville,
              Site visits are made at the request of                                                                                                             to assist property owners
    PEA-2                                                       Flooding           High         Yadkin County               Local               2025, Annually
              the property owner or developer and                                                                                                                and developers with
                                                                                                 Planning and
              are usually handled through the                                                                                                                    problems and potential
                                                                                                    Zoning
              Planning and Zoning Department.                                                                                                                    problems associated with
                                                                                                                                                                 drainage, erosion, and
                                                                                                                                                                 flooding. Site visits are
                                                                                                                                                                 made at the request of the
                                                                                                                                                                 property owner or
                                                                                                                                                                 developer and are usually
                                                                                                                                                                 handled through the
                                                                                                                                                                 Planning and Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                 Department.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:167
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of East Bend Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Will review at next update
              and include hazard mitigation                                                     Town of East
              objectives.                                                                       Bend, Yadkin
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate                                    Local                   2025
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                 and Zoning

              Update the Subdivision Ordinance by                                                                                                               Some mitigation objectives
                                                                                                Town of East
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                                                                                                have been integrated into
                                                                                                Bend, Yadkin
     P-3      mitigation objectives.                               All          Moderate                                    Local                   2025        the Subdivision Ordinance,
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                                                                                but additional integration
                                                                                                 and Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                would be beneficial.
              Review and revise the Planning                                                                                                                    Although clustering of
              Ordinance to allow for clustering of                                                                                                              development is allowed
              residential lots.                                                                 Town of East                                                    through the group
                                                                                                Bend, Yadkin                                                    development article of the
     P-4                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                   2025
                                                                                               County Planning                                                  Planning Ordinance, the
                                                                                                 and Zoning                                                     county will work to further
                                                                                                                                                                encourage cluster
                                                                                                                                                                development in the future.
              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                  Floodplain maps are
              floodplain maps.                                                                                                                                  updated by the state and
                                                                                                Town of East
                                                                                                                                                                while they have been
                                                                                                Bend, Yadkin              Federal
     P-5                                                        Flooding           High                                                             2025        updated relatively
                                                                                               County Planning             State
                                                                                                                                                                recently, another update
                                                                                                 and Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                of these maps is likely on
                                                                                                                                                                the horizon.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                               9:168
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                                 The County takes care of
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                                  this
              buildings that have been submerged
              for any length of time will be
              inspected for flood related damage as
              well as other conditions that may be
              dangerous to life, health or other
              property. Plan for Damaged
              Structures:
              1. Overall damage assessment/data
                    collection (visual inspection from
                                                                                                Town of East
                    roadways).
                                                                                                Bend, Yadkin                                   2025, Review and
     P-6      2. Data compiled and geographical                 Flooding           High                                     Local
                                                                                               County Building                                 update post-event
                    areas assigned to teams.
                                                                                                 Inspections
              3. Second detailed assessment by
                    area teams.
              4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                    etc. that have been exposed to
                    water will be opened for
                    evaluation.
              5. All construction that is repaired,
                    replaced, dried or sealed will be
                    inspected before covered.
              6. Structure inspected for
                    certificate of compliance.
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                     The county has
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                        implemented policies
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                               related to utility services in
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                               the past through the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                                                                                    method outlined. This
                                                                                                Town of East
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                                                                                      action will continue to be
                                                                                                Bend, Yadkin                                   2025, Review and
     P-7      necessary while collecting damage                    All             High                                     Local                                  implemented going
                                                                                               County Building                                 update post-event
              assessment data; 3) conduct                                                                                                                          forward as required when
                                                                                                 Inspections
              inspections on first come, first serve                                                                                                               utilities are damaged.
              basis; 4) work overtime to expedite                                                                                                                  When this occurs, the
              utility reconnections.                                                                                                                               policy will be re-evaluated
                                                                                                                                                                   to determine if changes
                                                                                                                                                                   are necessary.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:169
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                               The county has created a
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                  Town of East                                                       zoning map, but it will
              staff and public use.                                                             Bend, Yadkin                                                       need to be updated
     P-8                                                           All             High                                     Local                    2025
                                                                                               County Planning                                                     periodically in the future so
                                                                                                 and Zoning                                                        this action will remain in
                                                                                                                                                                   place.
                                                                                       Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             The county currently has a
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                               list of all repetitive loss
                                                                                                                                                                   properties, but that list will
                                                                                                Town of East
                                                                                                                                                                   need to be updated to
                                                                                                Bend, Yadkin                                      2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                        Flooding        Moderate                                    Local                                  ensure any repetitive loss
                                                                                               County Planning                                 review and update
                                                                                                                                                                   properties are on the radar
                                                                                                 and Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                   of local officials and that
                                                                                                                                                                   mitigation strategies can
                                                                                                                                                                   be devised.
                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Ensure adequate evacuation warning                                                                                                                   The county always works
                                                                                                 Town of East
              in case of major hazard event.                                                                                                                       to ensure adequate
                                                                                                 Bend, Yadkin
                                                                                                                                               2025, In advance    evacuation warning in the
     ES-1                                                          All             High            County                   Local
                                                                                                                                                  of events        case of major hazard
                                                                                                  Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                   events and will continue to
                                                                                                   Services
                                                                                                                                                                   do so going forward.
              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                      Although many shelters
                                                                                                 Town of East
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                                                                                        have improved capacities,
                                                                                                 Bend, Yadkin
                                                                                                                                                                   improvements in the form
     ES-2                                                    Severe Winter         High            County                   Local                    2025
                                                                                                                                                                   of generators or other heat
                                                             Weather                              Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                   sources are still necessary
                                                                                                   Services
                                                                                                                                                                   and will be pursued.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:170
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)         Relative    Lead Agency/      Potential                        Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed         Priority     Department    Funding Sources                        Schedule            Status (2025)
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                   The county has placed
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                  education materials
              branches of the Yadkin County public                                                                                                               concerning hazards in all
              library system.                                                                                                                                    branches of the county
                                                                                                Town of East
                                                                                                                                                                 library, but this action will
                                                                                                Bend, Yadkin
    PEA-1                                                          All             High                                     Local                   2025         need to be reviewed and
                                                                                               County Planning
                                                                                                                                                                 revised as additional
                                                                                                 and Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                 information is likely
                                                                                                                                                                 available and other
                                                                                                                                                                 outreach strategies will be
                                                                                                                                                                 explored.
              The Yadkin County Planning and                                                                                                                     The Yadkin County
              Zoning Director has received training                                                                                                              Planning and Zoning
              on erosion and sedimentation control                                                                                                               Director has received
              methods and on floodplain surveying                                                                                                                training on erosion and
              certification. On an annual basis, this                                                                                                            sedimentation control
              official or his designee makes                                                                                                                     methods and on floodplain
              numerous site visits to assist property                                                                                                            surveying certification. On
              owners and developers with problems                                                                                                                an annual basis, this
              and potential problems associated                                                                                                                  official or his designee
              with drainage, erosion, and flooding.                                             Town of East                                                     makes numerous site visits
              Site visits are made at the request of                                            Bend, Yadkin                                                     to assist property owners
    PEA-2                                                       Flooding           High                                     Local               2025, Annually
              the property owner or developer and                                              County Planning                                                   and developers with
              are usually handled through the                                                    and Zoning                                                      problems and potential
              Planning and Zoning Department.                                                                                                                    problems associated with
                                                                                                                                                                 drainage, erosion, and
                                                                                                                                                                 flooding. Site visits are
                                                                                                                                                                 made at the request of the
                                                                                                                                                                 property owner or
                                                                                                                                                                 developer and are usually
                                                                                                                                                                 handled through the
                                                                                                                                                                 Planning and Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                 Department.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:171
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Jonesville Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule            Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              Currently working on plan
                                                                                                   Town of
              and include hazard mitigation                                                                                                                     and this will be a part.
                                                                                                  Jonesville,
              objectives.
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate        Yadkin County               Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning
              Update the Subdivision Ordinance by                                                  Town of                                                      Town is looking into this.
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                                  Jonesville,
     P-3      mitigation objectives.                               All          Moderate        Yadkin County               Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning
              Review and revise the Planning                                                                                                                    Check with county.
              Ordinance to allow for clustering of
                                                                                                   Town of
              residential lots.
                                                                                                  Jonesville,
     P-4                                                        Flooding        Moderate        Yadkin County               Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning


              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                  County has worked with
              floodplain maps.                                                                     Town of                                                      the town to update this
                                                                                                  Jonesville,                                                   information.
                                                                                                                          Federal
     P-5                                                        Flooding           High         Yadkin County                                       2025
                                                                                                                           State
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:172
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule               Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                                 Inspections are handled
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                                  by the county.
              buildings that have been submerged
              for any length of time will be
              inspected for flood related damage as
              well as other conditions that may be
              dangerous to life, health or other
              property. Plan for Damaged
              Structures:
              1. Overall damage assessment/data
                    collection (visual inspection from                                             Town of
                    roadways).                                                                    Jonesville,
                                                                                                                                               2025, Review and
     P-6      2. Data compiled and geographical                 Flooding           High         Yadkin County               Local
                                                                                                                                               update post-event
                    areas assigned to teams.                                                       Building
              3. Second detailed assessment by                                                   Inspections
                    area teams.
              4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                    etc. that have been exposed to
                    water will be opened for
                    evaluation.
              5. All construction that is repaired,
                    replaced, dried or sealed will be
                    inspected before covered.
              6. Structure inspected for
                    certificate of compliance.
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                     The county has invested in
              storm damage and disconnected                                                                                                                        a mass notification
              utility services: 1) inform public via                                                                                                               system. This along with
              television, radio and newspaper of the                                                                                                               radio and TV
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                    Town of
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                     Jonesville,
                                                                                                                                               2025, Review and
     P-7      necessary while collecting damage                    All             High         Yadkin County               Local
                                                                                                                                               update post-event
              assessment data; 3) conduct                                                          Building
              inspections on first come, first serve                                             Inspections
              basis; 4) work overtime to expedite
              utility reconnections.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:173
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule               Status (2025)
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                               The county GIS has this
                                                                                                   Town of
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                                                                                     covered.
                                                                                                  Jonesville,
              staff and public use.
     P-8                                                           All             High         Yadkin County               Local                    2025
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning

                                                                                       Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             This is maintained.
              flood loss properties.
                                                                                                   Town of
                                                                                                  Jonesville,
                                                                                                                                                  2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                        Flooding        Moderate        Yadkin County               Local
                                                                                                                                               review and update
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning


                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Ensure adequate evacuation warning                                                                                                                   New County notification
                                                                                                   Town of
              in case of major hazard event.                                                                                                                       system
                                                                                                  Jonesville,
                                                                                                                                               2025, In advance
     ES-1                                                          All             High         Yadkin County               Local
                                                                                                                                                  of events
                                                                                                 Emergency
                                                                                                   Services
              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                      County is improving the
                                                                                                   Town of
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                                                                                        sheltering plan
                                                                                                  Jonesville,
     ES-2                                                    Severe Winter         High         Yadkin County               Local                    2025
                                                             Weather                             Emergency
                                                                                                   Services




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                   9:174
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)         Relative    Lead Agency/      Potential                        Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed         Priority     Department    Funding Sources                        Schedule             Status (2025)
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                   Still in the works.
              hazard education materials in all
              branches of the Yadkin County public
              library system.                                                                      Town of
                                                                                                  Jonesville,
    PEA-1                                                          All             High         Yadkin County               Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning



              The Yadkin County Planning and                                                                                                                     Working with the county.
              Zoning Director has received training
              on erosion and sedimentation control
              methods and on floodplain surveying
              certification. On an annual basis, this
              official or his designee makes
              numerous site visits to assist property
              owners and developers with problems
              and potential problems associated
                                                                                                   Town of
              with drainage, erosion, and flooding.
                                                                                                  Jonesville,
              Site visits are made at the request of
    PEA-2                                                       Flooding           High         Yadkin County               Local               2025, Annually
              the property owner or developer and
                                                                                                 Planning and
              are usually handled through the
                                                                                                    Zoning
              Planning and Zoning Department.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:175
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Town of Yadkinville Mitigation Action Plan
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative     Lead Agency/             Potential               Implementation       Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority      Department           Funding Sources               Schedule           Status (2025)
                                                                                            Prevention
              At next Land Use Plan Update, review                                                                                                              No changes.
                                                                                                   Town of
              and include hazard mitigation
                                                                                                  Yadkinville,
              objectives.
     P-1                                                           All          Moderate        Yadkin County               Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning
              Update the Subdivision Ordinance by                                                  Town of                                                      This is encouraged.
              reviewing and incorporating hazard                                                  Yadkinville,
     P-3      mitigation objectives.                               All          Moderate        Yadkin County               Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning
              Review and revise the Planning                                                                                                                    It was reviewed and it is
              Ordinance to allow for clustering of                                                                                                              encouraged.
                                                                                                   Town of
              residential lots.
                                                                                                  Yadkinville,
     P-4                                                        Flooding        Moderate        Yadkin County               Local                   2025
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning


              Revise and update the regulatory                                                                                                                  Coordinate with the
              floodplain maps.                                                                     Town of                                                      County
                                                                                                  Yadkinville,
                                                                                                                          Federal
     P-5                                                        Flooding           High         Yadkin County                                       2025
                                                                                                                           State
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                9:176
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Building Inspections – Flood Damaged                                                                                                                 The County has this
              Structures. Any and all portions of                                                                                                                  responsibility
              buildings that have been submerged
              for any length of time will be
              inspected for flood related damage as
              well as other conditions that may be
              dangerous to life, health or other
              property. Plan for Damaged
              Structures:
              1. Overall damage assessment/data
                    collection (visual inspection from                                             Town of
                    roadways).                                                                   Yadkinville,
                                                                                                                                               2025, Review and
     P-6      2. Data compiled and geographical                 Flooding           High         Yadkin County               Local
                                                                                                                                               update post-event
                    areas assigned to teams.                                                       Building
              3. Second detailed assessment by                                                   Inspections
                    area teams.
              4. Portions of walls, floors, ceilings,
                    etc. that have been exposed to
                    water will be opened for
                    evaluation.
              5. All construction that is repaired,
                    replaced, dried or sealed will be
                    inspected before covered.
              6. Structure inspected for
                    certificate of compliance.
              Policy and procedures related to                                                                                                                     The town has its own SEO
              storm damage and disconnected
              utility services: 1) inform public via
              television, radio and newspaper of the
              necessary steps to have utilities                                                    Town of
              restored; 2) restrict travel as                                                    Yadkinville,
                                                                                                                                               2025, Review and
     P-7      necessary while collecting damage                    All             High         Yadkin County               Local
                                                                                                                                               update post-event
              assessment data; 3) conduct                                                          Building
              inspections on first come, first serve                                             Inspections
              basis; 4) work overtime to expedite
              utility reconnections.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:177
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)          Relative      Lead Agency/            Potential               Implementation          Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed          Priority       Department          Funding Sources               Schedule              Status (2025)
              Create a zoning map (digital) that can                                                                                                               The County has this
                                                                                                   Town of
              be easily reproduced/updated for                                                                                                                     responsibility
                                                                                                  Yadkinville,
              staff and public use.
     P-8                                                           All             High         Yadkin County               Local                    2025
                                                                                                 Planning and
                                                                                                    Zoning

                                                                                       Property Protection
              Create and maintain a list of repetitive                                                                                                             The county currently has a
              flood loss properties.                                                                                                                               list of all repetitive loss
                                                                                                   Town of                                                         properties, but that list will
                                                                                                  Yadkinville,                                                     need to be updated to
                                                                                                                                                  2025, Annual
    PP-1                                                        Flooding        Moderate        Yadkin County               Local                                  ensure any repetitive loss
                                                                                                                                               review and update
                                                                                                 Planning and                                                      properties are on the radar
                                                                                                    Zoning                                                         of local officials and that
                                                                                                                                                                   mitigation strategies can
                                                                                                                                                                   be devised.
                                                                                       Emergency Services
              Ensure adequate evacuation warning                                                                                                                   The county always works
                                                                                                  Town of
              in case of major hazard event.                                                                                                                       to ensure adequate
                                                                                                 Yadkinville,
                                                                                                                                               2025, In advance    evacuation warning in the
     ES-1                                                          All             High         Yadkin County               Local
                                                                                                                                                  of events        case of major hazard
                                                                                                 Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                   events and will continue to
                                                                                                   Services
                                                                                                                                                                   do so going forward.
              Improve shelter capacities with                                                                                                                      Although many shelters
                                                                                                  Town of
              alternate power/heat sources.                                                                                                                        have improved capacities,
                                                                                                 Yadkinville,
                                                                                                                                                                   improvements in the form
     ES-2                                                    Severe Winter         High         Yadkin County               Local                    2025
                                                                                                                                                                   of generators or other heat
                                                             Weather                             Emergency
                                                                                                                                                                   sources are still necessary
                                                                                                   Services
                                                                                                                                                                   and will be pursued.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                    9:178
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Action                                                     Hazard(s)         Relative    Lead Agency/      Potential                        Implementation        Implementation
                            Description
     #                                                        Addressed         Priority     Department    Funding Sources                        Schedule            Status (2025)
                                                                               Public Education and Awareness
              Place flood protection and other                                                                                                                   The county has placed
              hazard education materials in all                                                                                                                  education materials
              branches of the Yadkin County public                                                                                                               concerning hazards in all
              library system.                                                                      Town of                                                       branches of the county
                                                                                                  Yadkinville,                                                   library, but this action will
    PEA-1                                                          All             High         Yadkin County               Local                   2025         need to be reviewed and
                                                                                                 Planning and                                                    revised as additional
                                                                                                    Zoning                                                       information is likely
                                                                                                                                                                 available and other
                                                                                                                                                                 outreach strategies will be
                                                                                                                                                                 explored.
              The Yadkin County Planning and                                                                                                                     The County has this
              Zoning Director has received training                                                                                                              responsibility.
              on erosion and sedimentation control
              methods and on floodplain surveying
              certification. On an annual basis, this
              official or his designee makes
              numerous site visits to assist property
              owners and developers with problems
              and potential problems associated
                                                                                                   Town of
              with drainage, erosion, and flooding.
                                                                                                  Yadkinville,
              Site visits are made at the request of
    PEA-2                                                       Flooding           High         Yadkin County               Local               2025, Annually
              the property owner or developer and
                                                                                                 Planning and
              are usually handled through the
                                                                                                    Zoning
              Planning and Zoning Department.




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                                                                  9:179
DRAFT – March 2025


SECTION 9: MITIGATION ACTION PLAN
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________




Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan                                                                                9:180
DRAFT – March 2025


                   RESOLUTION TO ADOPT THE
      NORTHERN PIEDMONT REGIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN

WHEREAS, Rockingham County is vulnerable to an array of natural hazards that can cause loss
of life and damages to public and private property; and

WHEREAS, the Rockingham County desires to seek ways to mitigate situations that may
aggravate such circumstances; and

WHEREAS, the development and implementation of a hazard mitigation plan can result in
actions that reduce the long-term risk to life and property from natural hazards; and

WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Rockingham County Board of County Commissioners to
protect its citizens and property from the effects of natural hazards by preparing and maintaining
a local hazard mitigation plan; and

WHEREAS, the Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in Article 5, Section 160D-501 of
Chapter 160D of the North Carolina General Statutes, delegated to local governmental units the
responsibility to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare of its citizenry; and

WHEREAS, the Legislature of the State of North Carolina has enacted General Statute Section
166A-19.41 (State emergency assistance funds) which provides that for a state of emergency
declared pursuant to G.S. 166A-19.20(a) after the deadline established by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency pursuant to the Disaster Mitigation Act of 2002, P.L. 106-390, the eligible
entity shall have a hazard mitigation plan approved pursuant to the Stafford Act; and.

WHEREAS, Section 322 of the Federal Disaster Mitigation Act of 2000 states that local
governments must develop an All-Hazards Mitigation Plan in order to be eligible to receive future
Hazard Mitigation Grant Program Funds and other disaster-related assistance funding and that
said Plan must be updated and adopted within a five-year cycle; and

WHEREAS, Rockingham County in coordination with Caswell, Davie, Forsyth, Rockingham,
Stokes, Surry and Yadkin Counties and the participating municipalities within those Counties has
prepared a multi-jurisdictional hazard mitigation plan with input from the appropriate local and
state officials;

WHEREAS, Rockingham County has performed a comprehensive review and evaluation of each
section of the previously approved Hazard Mitigation Plan and has updated the said plan as
required under regulations at 44 CFR Part 201 and according to guidance issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and the North Carolina Division of Emergency Management.

WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of Rockingham County to fulfill this
obligation in order that Rockingham County will be eligible for federal and state assistance in the
event that a state of disaster is declared for a hazard event affecting the jurisdiction;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of County Commissioners of
Rockingham County hereby:

        1. Adopts the Northern Piedmont Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan; and


       2. Agrees to take such other official action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out
          the proposed actions of the Plan.

Adopted on ___________________, 2025.

                                                   ____________________________________
                                                                                  , Chair
                                                              LOCAL GOVERNING BODY
ATTEST:

___________________________
                  , Clerk


Hazard Mitigation Plans List-Unadopted Communities-As of 1/12/2026

 Regional Plan Name                         Community Name
 Albemarle Regional Plan                    Gatesville
 Albemarle Regional Plan                    Gates County
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Bladenboro
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Boardman
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Brunswick
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Chadbourn
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Dublin
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    East Arcadia
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Elizabethtown
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Lake Waccamaw
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Lumber Bridge
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Lumberton
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Marietta
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Maxton
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    McDonald
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Orrum
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Parkton
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Proctorville
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Raynham
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Red Springs
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Rennert
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Rowland
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Sandyfield
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    St. Pauls
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Tabor City
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Tar Heel
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Columbus County
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Robeson County
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    White Lake
 Bladen, Columbus, Robeson Regional Plan    Whiteville
 Cabarrus, Stanly, Union Regional Plan      Richfield
 Cleveland, Gaston, Lincoln Regional Plan   Casar
 Cleveland, Gaston, Lincoln Regional Plan   Dellview
 Cleveland, Gaston, Lincoln Regional Plan   Earl
 Cleveland, Gaston, Lincoln Regional Plan   Fallston
 Cleveland, Gaston, Lincoln Regional Plan   Kingstown
 Cleveland, Gaston, Lincoln Regional Plan   Mooresboro
 Cleveland, Gaston, Lincoln Regional Plan   Ranlo
 Cleveland, Gaston, Lincoln Regional Plan   Spencer Mountains
 Nash, Edgecombe, Wilson Regional Plan      Black Creek
 Nash, Edgecombe, Wilson Regional Plan      Conetoe
 Nash, Edgecombe, Wilson Regional Plan      Dortches
 Nash, Edgecombe, Wilson Regional Plan      Elm City


Nash, Edgecombe, Wilson Regional Plan   Leggett
Nash, Edgecombe, Wilson Regional Plan   Lucama
Nash, Edgecombe, Wilson Regional Plan   Macclesfield
Nash, Edgecombe, Wilson Regional Plan   Middlesex
Nash, Edgecombe, Wilson Regional Plan   Saratoga
Nash, Edgecombe, Wilson Regional Plan   Sharpsburg
Nash, Edgecombe, Wilson Regional Plan   Speed
Nash, Edgecombe, Wilson Regional Plan   Whitakers
Nash, Edgecombe, Wilson Regional Plan   Wilson
Neuse River Regional Plan               Ayden
Neuse River Regional Plan               Eureka Unincorporated
Neuse River Regional Plan               Goldsboro
Neuse River Regional Plan               Greenville
Neuse River Regional Plan               Grimesland
Neuse River Regional Plan               Maysville
Neuse River Regional Plan               Mount Olive
Neuse River Regional Plan               Trenton
Northern Piedmont Regional Plan         Cooleemee
Northern Piedmont Regional Plan         Danbury
Northern Piedmont Regional Plan         Dobson
Northern Piedmont Regional Plan         Eden
Northern Piedmont Regional Plan         Elkin
Northern Piedmont Regional Plan         Madison
Northern Piedmont Regional Plan         Mayodan
Northern Piedmont Regional Plan         Mocksville
Northern Piedmont Regional Plan         Mount Airy
Northern Piedmont Regional Plan         Pilot Mountains
Northern Piedmont Regional Plan         Reidsville
Northern Piedmont Regional Plan         Stoneville
Northern Piedmont Regional Plan         Davie County
Northern Piedmont Regional Plan         Wentworth
Pamlico Sound Regional Plan             Arapahoe
Pamlico Sound Regional Plan             Bridgeton
South Mountains Regional Plan           Chimney Rock Village
South Mountains Regional Plan           Ellenboro
South Mountains Regional Plan           Forest City
South Mountains Regional Plan           Ruth
South Mountains Regional Plan           Rutherfordton


                   AGENDA ITEM COVER



Item for Agenda:         Social Media Policy
Placement on Agenda:     New Business
Presenter:               Brandi Shelton
 Description of Agenda   Background:
        Item or
                         The proposed social media Policy establishes
    Other Pertinent
                         guidelines for the appropriate use of social
    Information for      media by Town employees, representatives,
        Council:         and authorized users. The policy is intended to
                         ensure that all social media activities support
                         the Town’s mission, maintain public trust, and
                         comply with applicable laws, including North
                         Carolina Public Records Law.

                         The policy outlines expectations for official
                         use, content management, public engagement,
                         record retention, and compliance standards.

                         Requested Action
                         Approve the Town of Mayodan social media Policy
                         as presented.


                 Town of Mayodan Social Media Policy
Purpose

This social media Policy establishes guidelines for the appropriate use of social media by
employees, representatives, and authorized users of the Town of Mayodan. The policy is
intended to ensure that all social media activities support the Town’s mission, maintain
public trust, and comply with applicable laws and regulations.

II. Deﬁnitions

   -    Content: Any posts, images, videos, audio, or other materials shared through social
        media platforms related to Town business.
   -    Employee: All Town of Mayodan personnel, including full-time, part-time, temporary
        employees, interns, volunteers, and contracted workers.
   -    Endorsement: Promotion of a product, service, or organization on a Town social
        media platform. All endorsements must be approved by the Town Manager or their
        designer.
   -    Social media: Online platforms used for communication and content sharing,
        including but not limited to Facebook, Instagram, Twitter/X, YouTube, LinkedIn, and
        similar applications.
   -    Social Networking: The use of online platforms to build relationships and
        communicate with others.

Scope

This policy applies to all Town of Mayodan employees. Employees should understand that
they always represent the Town, both on and off duty. Participation in social media should
reﬂect professionalism and awareness of how content may be perceived by the public.

IV. Public Records Law

All content related to Town business, including social media posts and interactions, is
subject to the North Carolina Public Records Law (N.C.G.S. § 132-1) and may be retained
and disclosed in accordance with state law.

V. Official Town Social Media Use

The Town of Mayodan uses social media to:

   •    Promote transparency in government operations

   •    Encourage civic engagement


   •   Share important updates, including emergency information

   •   Promote Town services, programs, and events

Authorized Users

Only employees authorized by the Town Manager may post or manage official Town social
media accounts.

Guidelines for Official Use

Authorized users must:

   •   Clearly identify themselves and their role when posting on behalf of the Town

   •   Ensure all information shared is accurate, professional, and timely

   •   Maintain respectful and courteous communication at all times

   •   Promptly correct errors when identiﬁed

   •   Use proper grammar, spelling, and tone

   •   Avoid engaging in arguments or unprofessional exchanges online

   •   Comply with copyright laws and only use approved content

Social media platforms should supplement the Town’s official website and direct users to it
as the primary source of information.

Unauthorized endorsements or promotions are prohibited unless approved by the Town
Manager.

Account Management

   •   Social media accounts must be regularly monitored and updated

   •   Comments should be reviewed, and platforms should include a notice such as:
       “Comments posted to this page will be monitored.”

   •   Departments should ensure coverage for account management during employee
       absences

   •   Responses to public inquiries should be timely and helpful

Personal Use of Social Media

The Town respects employees’ First Amendment rights; however, those rights are not
absolute when related to Town business.


Employees may use social media for personal purposes but must:

   •   Clearly distinguish personal opinions from official Town positions

   •   Avoid any appearance of speaking on behalf of the Town

   •   Exercise sound judgment and professionalism

   •   Comply with all Town policies, including the Code of Ethics and Personnel Policy

Inappropriate Use

Inappropriate social media use may result in disciplinary action, up to and including
termination. Examples include:

   •   Creating conﬂicts involving the Town, coworkers, or the public

   •   Interfering with workplace operations

   •   Posting harassing, discriminatory, or offensive content

   •   Damaging the Town’s reputation or public trust

   •   Disrupting delivery service to citizens

Excessive personal use of social media during work hours is also prohibited.

Prohibited Use

The following actions are strictly prohibited on both personal and official accounts:

   •   Sharing confidential or sensitive information
   •   Disclosing personal data (e.g., addresses, Social Security numbers, financial or
       medical information)
   •   Posting unlawful or inappropriate content
   •   Violating Town policies or Ethical Standards

Monitoring and Enforcement

   •   The Town reserves the right to monitor social media activity related to Town
       business. Employees should have no expectation of privacy when using Town-
       owned devices or networks.


   Reporting Violations

   •   Employees are encouraged to report suspected violations to a supervisor,
       Department Head, or Human Resources. All reports will be reviewed and addressed
       appropriately.

Content That May Be Shared

The Town may share community-related content that provides a clear public benefit,
including:

   •   Local events that are open to the public (festivals, markets, community gatherings)
   •   Grand openings and ribbon cuttings within Town limits
   •   Nonprofit initiatives, fundraisers, and charitable events
   •   Educational programs, public health information, and community services
   •   Partnerships or events involving the Town or affiliated organizations

All shared content must be accurate, appropriate, and relevant to the Mayodan
community.

Content That Will NOT Be Shared

The Town will not share:

   •   Political content, campaign materials, or endorsements of any candidate or issue
   •   Content that is discriminatory, offensive, or inappropriate
   •   Misleading, false, or unverifiable information
   •   Commercial advertisements that are solely promotional and do not provide a
       broader community benefit
   •   Content that violates copyright laws or lacks proper authorization

For-Profit Business Content

The Town may share limited content from for-profit businesses under the following
conditions:

   •   The content promotes a public event, grand opening, or activity open to the
       community
   •   The post is informational in nature and not purely an advertisement
   •   All businesses are given equal opportunity to be featured, with no favoritism shown

The Town reserves the right to limit the frequency of business-related posts to ensure
fairness and to prioritize official Town communications. When sharing content from
outside organizations or businesses, the following disclaimer will be included:


“The Town of Mayodan is sharing this information as a community service. The Town does
not endorse or sponsor the event, organization, or business referenced.”

To ensure effective communication and maintain an organized, engaging social media
presence, the Town of Mayodan will follow these guidelines for prioritizing and scheduling
content:

Prioritizing Urgent Information

Certain types of content require immediate attention and take precedence over other
posts, including:

   •   Road closures, traffic alerts, and detours
   •   Weather emergencies, natural disasters, or public safety alerts
   •   Health and safety notifications, such as water advisories or public health warnings

Urgent posts will be published promptly and may temporarily take priority over other
scheduled content.

Scheduling General Announcements & Events

   •   Non-urgent content, including events, community programs, and business
       highlights, should be scheduled in advance to maintain a consistent posting flow.
   •   Posts should be spaced to avoid overwhelming followers and to maximize visibility.
   •   Weekly or monthly planning is recommended to organize content by type and
       relevance.

Preventing Overcrowding & Excessive Posting

   •   The Town will limit the number of posts per day to maintain clarity and engagement.
   •   Group similar events or announcements into a single post when appropriate.
   •   Major announcements (e.g., holiday closures, important meetings) will be
       highlighted separately to ensure they are not lost in routine content.

Review & Adjustment

   •   Social media administrators will periodically review posting schedules and
       engagement to adjust timing and content prioritization.
   •   Scheduling flexibility is allowed to respond to urgent situations or unexpected
       community needs.


Social Media Content as Public Records

   •   All posts, comments, replies, messages, and attachments published on official
       Town social media accounts may be considered public records.

   •   This includes text, images, videos, and links shared on platforms such as Facebook,
       Twitter/X, Instagram, and YouTube.

   •   Administrators must treat content with the same care as other official records,
       maintaining integrity and accuracy.

Archiving Process

   •   All posts will be captured and archived using an approved method, such as:

          o   Platform-native archiving tools or download features

          o   Third-party social media archiving software that ensures a secure,
              searchable record

          o   Screenshots or PDFs for posts that are time-sensitive or contain community
              feedback

   •   Comments and direct messages that relate to Town business should also be
       retained as part of the record.

Retention Schedule

   •   Content should be retained for a minimum of ﬁve (5) years, in accordance with
       North Carolina public records requirements for municipal governments, unless
       longer retention is mandated by law for speciﬁc content (e.g., legal notices,
       contracts, ﬁnancial records).

   •   Archived content should include:

          o   Date and time of posting

          o   Author or account name

          o   Post content, including text, images, and links

          o   Any relevant engagement metrics (optional, for context)

Storage & Security

   •   Archived content should be stored on Town-managed servers or secure cloud
       platforms.


   •   Access to archived records must be limited to authorized personnel to protect the
       integrity of public records.

   •   Backups should be maintained to prevent loss due to technical failure or platform
       changes.

Compliance & Public Access

   •   Social media administrators must ensure all archived content is retrievable for
       public record requests in accordance with North Carolina Public Records Law.

   •   Any content removed from social media for corrections or errors must still be
       retained in the archive with documentation of the reason for removal.

Regular Review

   •   The Town will periodically review archiving processes to ensure compliance with
       legal requirements, platform changes, and technological updates.

   •   Staff will be trained in proper procedures for capturing, storing, and retrieving
       records from social media platforms.


                                                   Town of Mayodan. 210 W. Main Street. Mayodan. NC. 27027
                                                                       (336)427.0241
                                                                 www.townofmayodan.com
                                                             James A. Collins Municipal Building



                   NATIONAL PUBLIC WORKS WEEK PROCLAMATION
                                  May 17-23, 2026
                          “PEOPLE, PURPOSE, PRESENCE”

       WHEREAS, public works professionals focus on infrastructure, facilities, and services that are of vital
importance to sustainable and resilient communities and to the public health, high quality of life, and well-being of
the people of the Town of Mayodan; AND

        WHEREAS, these infrastructure, facilities, and services could not be provided without the dedicated efforts
of public works professionals, who are responsible for rebuilding, improving, and protecting our town’s transportation,
water supply, water treatment and solid waste systems, public buildings, and other structures and facilities essential
for our citizens; AND

       WHEREAS, it is in the public interest for the citizens, civic leaders, and children in the Town of Mayodan to
gain knowledge of and maintain an ongoing interest and understanding of the importance of Public Works and public
works programs in their respective communities; AND

        WHEREAS, the year 2026 marks the 66th annual National Public Works Week sponsored by the American
Public Works Association.

        NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT, the Mayodan Town Council do hereby designate the week
May 18–24, 2025, as National Public Works Week, and further extends its appreciation to our Public Works department
for the vital services they perform. We encourage all citizens to thank and celebrate our Public Works employees and
to recognize the substantial contributions they make to protecting our health, safety, and quality of life and for making
Town of Mayodan a great place to live, work, and visit.

PROCLAIMED this 11th day of May 2026.




                                                                      _______________________________
                                                                          E. Dwight Lake, Mayor

        ATTEST:

        ________________________________
          Sarah Hopper, Town Clerk


                            Mayodan Fire Department
                                 100 North Ayersville Road
                                     Mayodan, NC 27027
                                      (336) 427-5977
                                      Chief Dylan Garner
                                        (336) 552-3215
                                   dgarner@mayodannc.org



To: Mayodan Town Council, Mayor, and Town Manager
From: Dylan Garner, Fire Chief
Date: April 2026
Subject: Emergency Calls and Training Report for April 2026


                             Emergency Calls for April 2026


1. 4/1/2026 – 10:19 PM – Breathing Problem
      • 140 Perry Lane, Mayodan
      • Assisted Rockingham County EMS
      • Station 60 personnel arrived on scene and assisted as needed
      • 2 Personnel (1 EMT, 1 EMC)
2. 4/2/2026 – 1:38 AM – Structure Fire
      • 1640 NC 135 Mayodan
      • Assisted Station 130 on a possible Structure Fire
      • Station 60 canceled En-route by 130 personnel due to no fire
      • 2 Personnel (1 FF, 1 Support)
3. 4/2/2026 – 7:30 AM – Pregnancy
      • 6711 NC 135, Mayodan
      • Station 60 was cancelled En-Route
      • 4 Personnel (2 EMT, 2 EMC)
4. 4/2/2026 – 11:18 AM – Mutual Aid response
      • 2283 Reynolds Rd, Madison
      • Responded to assist Station 37 with a alarm. Cancelled En-route due to false alarm
      • 5 Personnel (2 FF, 1 D/O, 2 Support)
5. 4/2/2026 – 4:20 PM – Structure Fire
      • 216 Rose Wind Way, Mayodan
      • Units arrived on scene to find a car fire in the garage
      • Personnel extinguished the car fire. Fire was contained to the car
      • 9 Personnel (2 FF, 2 D/O 5 Support)


                                               1


6. 4/2/2026 – 7:44 PM – Outside Fire
       • 110 Cardinal Rd, Madison
       • Arrived on scene to a small, controlled burn. Homeowner was told no open burning
          during burn ban and fire was extinguished
       • 8 Personnel (2 FF, 2 D/O 5 Support)
7. 4/2/2026 – 8:56 PM – Chest Pain
       • 802 W Monroe St, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist Rockingham County EMS with a Chest Pain
       • EMS assumed all patient care. Patient walked to the ambulance for transport
       • 2 Personnel (1 EMT, 1 EMC)
8. 4/2/2026 – 10:21 PM – CO Alarm
       • 805 W Academy St. Madison
       • Cancelled En-Route due to false alarm
       • 2 Personnel (1 D/O, 1 Support)
9. 4/3/2026 – 9:49 PM – Chest Pain
       • 150 Horner Johnson. Madison
       • Responded to assist RCEMS with Chest Pain
       • Arrived on scene and assisted as needed. The patient was not transported
       • 62 Personnel (1 EMT, 1 EMC)
10. 4/4/2026 – 9:01 PM – Residential Alarm
       • 1929 Dunlap Rd, Madison
       • Assisted Stokes 37 with Residential Alarm
       • Engine 63 cancelled En-Route due to false alarm
       • 6 Personnel (1 FF, 2 D/O 3 Support)
11. 4/5/2026 – 7:10 AM – Chest Pain
       • 6711 NC 135, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS with Chest Pain
       • Squad 68 arrived on scene and assisted with loading the patient onto transport
       • 2 Personnel (1 EMT, 1 EMC)
12. 4/6/2026 – 1:22 PM – Chest Pain
       • 155 Pinecrest rd., Madison
       • Dispatched to Assist RCEMS with Chest Pain
       • Squad 68 arrived on scene to find RCEMS assuming patient care. Squad 68 personnel
          assisted as needed
       • 5 Personnel (3 EMT, 2 EMC)
13. 4/7/2026 – 4:25 PM – Service Call
       • 6665 NC 135, Mayodan
       • Engine 61 proceeded and arrived on scene at Taco Bell for equipment malfunction
       • Engine 61 personnel advised having certified maintenance inspector inspect equip.
       • 5 Personnel (1 FF, 1 D/O, 3 support)
14. 4/8/2026 – 6:41 PM – Structure Fire
       • 131 Boles St, Mayodan

                                            2


       •  Engine 61 arrived on scene to find a working house fire. Firefighters extinguished the
          fire and contained it in one room
       • 10 Personnel (2 FF, 2 D/O, 6 Support)
15. 4/8/2026 – 9:47 PM –Diabetic Problem
       • 308 S 5th Ave, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS on Diabetic Problem
       • Mayodan Fire Department units arrived and assessed the patient until EMS arrived
       • RCEMS assumed all patient care, Station 60 personnel assisted as needed
       • 3 Personnel (1 EMT, 2 EMC)
16. 4/9/2026 – 11:41 AM – Breathing Problems
       • 304 Whitbeck Dr, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS on Breathing Problem.
       • Squad 68 was cancelled en-route
       • 2 Personnel (1 EMT, 2 EMC)
17. 4/9/2026 – 11:57 AM – Diabetic Problems
       • 1209 W Madison St, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS on a Diabetic Problem.
       • Arrived on scene with RCEMS. RCEMS assumed all patient care.
       • Fire personnel assisted as needed
       • 4 Personnel (2 EMT, 2 EMC)
18. 4/10/2026 – 3:37 PM – Chest Pain
       • 204 N 9th Ave, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS
       • Squad 68 arrived on scene with RCEMS. Squad 68 personnel assisted as needed
       • 3 Personnel (1 EMT, 2 EMC)
19. 4/11/2026 – 12:54 PM – outside fire
       • 510 N 3rd Ave, Mayodan
       • Station 60 units arrived on scene to find a controlled burn
       • Fire was extinguished. Resident notified of burn ban and town ordinance on burning
       • 5 Personnel (2 FF, 2 D/O, 1 Support)
20. 4/12/2026 – 11:21 AM – Stroke
       • 101 S 1st Ave, Mayodan
       • Station 60 dispatched to assist RCEMS with a Stroke
       • Squad 68 personnel arrived on scene and assisted as need
       • 2 Personnel (1 EMT, 1 EMC)
21. 4/13/2026 – 2:14 PM – Hemorrhage
       • 501 N Ayersville Rd, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS with a Hemorrhage
       • RCEMS cancelled Squad 68 after arriving on scene
       • 3 Personnel (1 EMT, 2 support)
22. 4/14/2026 – 7:51 PM – Breathing Problem
       • 6257 NC 704, Mayodan

                                               3


       • Responded to assist RCEMS with a breathing problem
       • Station 60 personnel arrived and assisted as needed
       • 2 personnel (1 EMT, 1 EMC)
23. 4/14/2026 – 11:10 PM – Breathing Problem
       • 211 N 13th Ave, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS on a breathing problem
       • Squad 68 personnel assisted as needed
       • 2 Personnel (2 EMT)
24. 4/14/2026 – 11:23 PM – Transportation Accident
       • US 220/NC 135, Mayodan
       • Units responded and were cancelled En-Route by RCSD
       • 9 Personnel (3 FF, 2 D/O, 4 Support)
25. 4/15/2026 – 3:54 PM – Stroke
       • 314 S 5th Ave, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS on a Stroke
       • Squad 68 arrived on scene, personnel assessed patient until EMS arrival
       • 2 Personnel (1 EMT, 1 EMC)
26. 4/16/2026 – 7:58 AM – Commercial Alarm
       • 700 S Ayersville Rd, Mayodan
       • Responded to alarm at Ruger
       • Accidental Alarm Activation
       • 7 personnel (3 FF, 2 D/O. 2 Support)
27. 4/16/2025 – 3:59 PM– Unconscious
       • 1209 W Madison St, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS with an unconscious
       • Assisted EMS with an unconscious male patient
       • 3 Personnel (1 EMT, 2 EMC)
28. 4/16/2025 – 6:40 PM – Service Call/Lift Assist
       • 501 N Ayersville Rd, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS on a lift assist
       • Assisted patient from transport unit to her bed
       • 3 Personnel (1 EMT, 2 EMC)
29. 4/16/2025 – 8:43 PM– Transportation Accident
       • 403 W Jackson St, Mayodan
       • 60 units arrived on scene of a two-vehicle accident
       • Personnel removed debris from highway and investigated hazards
       • 7 Personnel (2 FF, 2 D/O, 3 Support)
30. 4/16/2026 – 9:21 PM – Unconscious
       • 135 Hairstone Road Mayodan
       • Assisted EMS with an unconscious male patient
       • 3 Personnel (1 EMT, 2 EMC)
31. 4/17/2025 – 1:21 PM – Mutual Aid outside fire

                                             4


       • 1235 Goad Rd. Madison
       • Responded to assist stokes 37 with an outside fire
       • Brush 67 personnel extinguished the outside fire and lawn mower fire
       • 6 Personnel (2 FF, 2 D/O, 2 support )
32. 4/17/2026 – 3:25 PM – Brush Grass Fire
       • 144 Turner Rd, Mayodan
       • Brush 67 proceeded and arrived to find fire was out. Brush 67 wetted area to
          confirm no reigniting could occur.
       • 5 Personnel (2 FF, 2 D/O, 1 Support)
33. 4/19/2026 – 6:05 AM – Residential Alarm
       • 221 N Franklin St. Madison
       • Station 60 assisted Station 50 with alarm
       • Personnel investigated, Accidental Activation, all units cleared the scene
       • 4 Personnel (1 FF, 2 D/O, 1 Support)
34. 4/19/2026 – 5:07 PM – Transportation Accident
       • 6625 NC 135, Mayodan
       • Engine 63 and Brush 67 arrived on scene to find two vehicle accident with injuries
       • One patient was entrapped. Door was removed by Station 60personnel
       • Station 60 personnel-controlled traffic and removed debris from roadway
       • 2 personnel (1 EMT, 1EMC)
35. 4/20/2026– 5:41 AM – Chest Pain
       • 155 Pinecrest rd. Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS on a Chest Pain
       • Squad 68 arrived on scene to find Patient inside the unit with EMS
       • RCEMS cleared Station 60 personnel
       • 2 personnel (1 EMT, 1 EMC)
36. 4/20/2026 – 9:00 AM – Residential Alarm
       • 300 Sisk Mill Lp, Madison
       • Arrived on scene to find no alarm sounding and residents not at home
       • Investigation was conducted and determined alarm malfunctioning
       • 4 Personnel (1 FF, 1 D/O, 2 Support)
37. 4/20/2026 – 6:30 PM – Diabetic Problem
       • 11th Ave, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS with Diabetic Problem
       • Station 60 personnel units arrived on scene to find RCEMS with a female patient.
          Station 60 personnel assisted as needed
       • 5 Personnel (2 EMT, 3 EMC)
38. 4/20/2026 – 11:54 PM – Chest Pain
       • 130 Shakey Rd, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist EMS with a Chest Pain
       • Cancelled En-route by EMS
       • 3 Personnel (2 EMT, 1 EMC)

                                              5


39. 4/21/2026 – 12:03 AM – Seizures
       • 6703 NC 135r, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS with Seizures
       • Station 60 personnel arrived on scene and gathered vitals
       • Station 60 personnel assisted as needed
       • 3 Personnel (2 EMT, 1 EMC)
40. 4/21/2026 – 1:49 PM – Strange Odor
       • 106 N 2nd Ave
       • Station 60 Responded to a strange odor at a business
       • Investigated and found cigarettes discarded and smoldering in a flower pot
       • 8 personnel (3 FF, 5 Support)
41. 4/21/2026 – 4:11 PM – Diabetic Problem
       • 604 N 11th Ave, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS with a Diabetic Problem
       • Squad 68 arrived on scene and gathered vitals until EMS arrival
       • 5 Personnel (3 EMT, 2 EMC)
42. 4/22/2026 – 3:07 PM – Alarm Residential
       • 165 Victory Hill Church Rd, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist Station 130 with a residential alarm
       • Engine 63 and Ladder 62 proceeded and was cancelled En-route
       • 7 Personnel (2 FF, 2 D/O, 3 Support)
43. 4/22/2026 – 3:57 PM – Seizures
       • 6970 NC 135, Mayodan
       • Responded to assist Rockingham County EMS with a seizure
       • Station 60 personnel arrived to find EMS with the patient. Station 60 personnel
          assisted as needed
       • 4 Personnel (2 EMT 2 EMC)
44. 4/23/2026 – 2:49 PM – Stroke
       • 403 N 5th Ave. Mayodan
       • Responded to assist RCEMS with a Stroke
       • Squad 68 arrived on scene with RCEMS. Squad 68 personnel assisted as needed.
       • 4 personnel (2 EMT, 1 EMC, 1 Support)
45. 4/24/2026 – 6:16 AM – Mutual Aid
       • 1020 Big Horse Creek Road, Madison
       • Responded to assist Stokes 36 with a Stroke
       • Squad 68 arrived on scene and assisted as needed.
       • 3 Personnel ()
46. 4/24/2026 – 5:19 PM – Stoke CVA
       • 211 N 3rd Ave, Mayodan
       • Station 60 assisted RCEMS on a Stroke
       • Station 60 personnel arrived on scene and assisted EMS as needed
       • RCEMS arrived on scene and assumed all patient care

                                             6


       • 2 personnel (1 EMT, 1EMC)
47. 4/24/2026 – 10:34 PM Transportation Accident
           • S Ayersville Rd, Mayodan
           • Station 60 personnel-controlled traffic and removed debris from roadway
           • 6 Personnel (2 FF, 1 D/O, 3 support)
48. 4/25/2026 – 6:25 PM Outside Fire
       • 7080 NC 704, Madison
       • Station 60 units arrived on scene to find 4 leaf piles burning
       • Brush 67 extinguished the piles and warned home owner of burn ban
       • 4 Personnel (2 FF, 2 Support)
49. 4/25/2026 – 6:53 PM – Electrical Hazard
       • 7061 NC 704, Madison
       • Station 60 units arrived on scene to find a small tree limb touching a power line
          causing a arc.
       • Duke energy was called and arrived on scene
       • 4 Personnel (2 FF, 2 Support)
50. 4/25/2026 – 11:10 PM – Service call/Tree down
       • 300 S 2nd Ave, Mayodan
       • Station 60 units were cancelled due to small limb removed by MPD
       • 2 personnel (1 FF, 1 Support)
51. 4/26/2026 – 8:00 PM – Alarm Commercial
       • New Market Madison
       • Station 60 dispatched to assist Station 50 on alarm
       • Station 60 units cancelled en-route due to false alarm
       • 6 personnel (1 FF, 2 D/O, 3 Support)
52. 4/27/2026 – 9:04 AM – Diabetic Emergency
       • 604 N 11th Ave, Mayodan
       • Station 60 assisted RCEMS with Diabetic Problem
       • Squad 68 personnel gathered vitals and assisted with loading patient
       • 4 personnel (2 EMT, 2 EMC)
53. 4/28/26 – 10:54 AM Chest Pain
       • 271 Cardwell Rd, Mayodan
       • Assisted RCEMS with a Chest Pain
       • Squad 68 arrived on scene and assisted EMS as needed
       • 5 Personnel (2 EMT, 3 EMC)
54. 4/28/26 – 9:13 AM – Alarm Commercial
       • 915 Ayersville Rd. Mayodan
       • Assist Station 50 with a commercial alarm
       • Engine 63 arrived on scene and determined false alarm due to power outage
       • 7 Personnel (1 FF, 2 D/O, 4 Support)
55. 4/28/26 – 11:41 PM – Chest Pain
       • 155 Pine Crest Road, Madison

                                               7


       • Assist EMS with a chest pain
       • Personnel assisted EMS as needed
       • (1 EMT)
56. 4/30/26 – 11:05 – Alarm Commercial
       • 802 S Ayersville Rd
       • Engine 61 arrived on scene and investigated. Confirmed false alarm
       • 8 Personnel (3 FF, 1 D/O, 4 Support)




                             Drills and Training for April 2026


Drills:
•   4/13/2026 – Vehicle Stabilization
       • Held at Mayodan FD
       • Trained in use of Rescue 42 Struts
       • Trained on scene safety and how to properly use struts while stabilizing a vehicle
       • Led by Chad Joyce
•   4/27/2026 – Water supply using drop tank
       • Held at Mayodan Fire Department
       • Trained in how to set up Drop Trank
       • Discussed how to draft and flow water using drop tank as water supply
       • Led by C. Joyce




                                               8
