                                                                     Cary Town Council
                                                             Thursday, August 27, 2026
                                                                               6:30 PM
                                                                     Council Chambers
                                 316 N. Academy Street, Cary Town Hall, Cary, NC 27513


1.   COMMENCEMENT

     1.1   Call to Order

     1.2   Ceremonial Opening led by Mayor Weinbrecht

     1.3   Adoption of agenda

2.   RECOGNITIONS, REPORTS, AND PRESENTATIONS

     2.1   Manager's Report

3.   PUBLIC SPEAKS OUT (one-hour time limit)
     Public Speaks Out is the Town Council’s opportunity to hear comments from as many
     citizens as possible. During Public Speaks Out, the Town Council receives comments
     and refrains from speaking. If a citizen comments about an issue that appears to be
     something that can be addressed by staff members, Council may ask the manager to
     have an appropriate staff person follow up.

     Thanks to everyone in the audience for respecting the business meeting by
     refraining from speaking from the audience, applauding speakers, or other actions
     that distract the meeting.

     Anyone who wants to speak during Public Speaks Out should do the following:
        • Take a seat in the reserved seats;
        • Complete the contact information card located at the seat;
        • When it is your turn to speak, proceed to the town clerk from the aisle behind
           the clerk, and give the clerk your completed contact information card and any
           handouts you have for the Town Council;
        • Step to the podium next to the clerk; state your name clearly;
        • Be concise; avoid repetition; limit comments to three minutes or less;
           designate a spokesperson for large groups; direct comments to the full Town
           Council and not to an individual Town Council member;
        • Speakers may return to their regular seats from any aisle.

           Instructions for Public Speaks Out Participation

           Written Comments and Registered Speakers For Public Speaks Out

4.   CONSENT AGENDA
                                                                       August 27, 2026
                                                                                Page 2



CONSENT AGENDA items are non-controversial items unanimously recommended for
approval by all involved parties. A single vote may be taken for the approval of ALL
consent agenda items. Any individual council member may pull items off the consent
agenda to discuss them. Items pulled off the consent agenda will be handled with the
“DISCUSSION ITEMS” agenda topic.

4.1    Annual Report on Utility Oversize Reimbursements for Fiscal Year 2026
       Speaker: Jamie Revels, Utilities

       Executive Summary: Cary provided oversize reimbursement in
       accordance with Standard Procedure 144 to Panther Creek, LLC, which,
       as part of the Channing Park development, provided Cary with 12-inch
       and 20-inch reclaimed water mains. Oversize reimbursements allow Cary
       to compensate developers for installing utility infrastructure that is larger
       than required for their development but is sized to serve the surrounding
       region in accordance with Cary’s utility master plans. These agreements
       provide cash reimbursements for eligible utility oversizing, funded from
       capital project allocations.

       Recommendation: No Council action is required. The purpose of this
       report is to provide Council with an annual update on oversize
       reimbursements as required by Standard Procedure 144: Utility Line
       Oversize Reimbursement Requests.

4.2    ACT-37: Imagine Cary Community Plan ENGAGE and MOVE Chapter Updates,
       and ACT 38 Land Development Ordinance (LDO) Amendments
       Speaker: Cassie Schumacher-Georgopoulos, Transportation

       Executive Summary: The Imagine Cary Community Plan, adopted in
       2017, is Cary’s comprehensive plan created by the community. The
       residents and community leaders who developed Imagine Cary
       anticipated that periodic updates would be necessary to keep the plan
       current and responsive. In 2024, Cary updated the LIVE and SERVE
       chapters and added a new Preface and an ENRICH chapter. Updates to
       the ENGAGE and MOVE chapters are now proposed. These updates to
       the Imagine Cary Community Plan continue to build on the strong
       foundation established in 2017, incorporating new insights and addressing
       contemporary challenges.

       This action requests adoption of a comprehensive plan amendment to
       incorporate the Bike Plan and the Parks, Recreation, and Cultural
       Resources (PRCR) System Plan into Imagine Cary (ACT 37), integrating
       their policies and recommendations into Cary’s comprehensive planning
       framework. Adoption of this comprehensive plan amendment also
       necessitates corresponding amendments to related sections of the Land
                                                                    August 27, 2026
                                                                             Page 3

      Development Ordinance (ACT 38) and Policy Statement 65: Recreation
      Fund Payments for Recreation, Park, and Open Space Sites.

      Recommendation: That Council (1) adopts the attached resolution
      approving the Bike Plan, comprehensive plan amendment (ACT 37), and
      amendments to Policy Statement 65; (2) adopts the attached “Motion to
      Adopt ACT 38 Code of Ordinances and Land Development Ordinance
      (LDO) Amendments and Statement of Consistency.”

      Planning and Zoning Board Determination: The Planning and Zoning
      Board recommended approval of the request by a vote of 7-0.

4.3   Contract for Preliminary Engineering Services for Western Wake Regional
      Water Reclamation Facility Liquids Treatment Expansion
      Speaker: Jamie Revels, Utilities

      Executive Summary: The Western Wake Regional Water Reclamation
      Facility (WWRWRF) is a jointly owned facility serving Cary, Apex,
      Morrisville, and Wake County’s portion of Research Triangle Park. The
      WWRWRF was constructed as a regional partnership among Cary, Apex,
      and Morrisville, with Cary owning 66% of the facility and Apex owning
      34%. WWRWRF has been in operation since 2014, and influent flows
      have steadily increased as anticipated with continued development in the
      contributing communities. Current population growth and flow projections
      indicate that an expansion of the facility will be required by 2035.

      The preliminary engineering services for the liquids treatment portion of
      the expansion, including the evaluation and process selection for the
      wastewater treatment process improvements, are the first in a series of
      contracts needed to plan, design, and construct the overall WWRWRF
      expansion. Biosolids-related preliminary engineering services will be
      presented to Council as a separate contract under a separate staff report.

      Pursuant to a resolution Cary Town Council adopted that requires Council
      approval for contracts exceeding $750,000, staff is seeking approval to
      award a contract to Stantec Consulting Services, Inc. in the amount of
      $905,200 for the liquids treatment phase of preliminary engineering
      services.

      Recommendation: That Council adopts the attached resolution
      authorizing the town manager, deputy town manager, or assistant town
      manager to execute an agreement with Stantec Consulting Services, Inc.,
      substantially similar to Cary’s template agreements for these services in
      the amount of $905,200.
                                                                   August 27, 2026
                                                                            Page 4

4.4   Contract Renewal for Wastewater Flow Monitoring and Data Analysis
      Speaker: Jamie Revels, Utilities

      Executive Summary: Cary maintains a network of flow monitors and rain
      gauges throughout its wastewater collection system, providing valuable
      data to track system performance, plan capital improvements, and
      evaluate available capacity for development. The existing agreement with
      Vision NC, LLC to provide wastewater flow monitoring and data analysis
      expires on Aug. 31, 2026. Staff recommends amendment of the
      agreement to add an additional one-year term at a cost of $400,000,
      which will increase the total contract price to $978,053.76. Council
      approval of the amendment is required pursuant to a resolution Cary Town
      Council adopted that requires Council approval for contracts exceeding
      $750,000.

      Recommendation: That Council adopts the attached resolution
      authorizing the town manager, deputy town manager, or assistant town
      manager to execute an amendment to the existing agreement with Vision
      NC, LLC, substantially similar to Cary’s template amendment in an
      amount not to exceed $400,000 for a one-year term.

4.5   Bid Award for the Cary Tennis Park Post-Tension Court Renovation
      Speaker: Paul Webster, Facilities, Construction, and Field Services

      Executive Summary: The Cary Tennis Park hosts numerous premier
      collegiate and professional tennis events throughout the year. The park's
      existing asphalt courts have exceeded their 20-year service life and
      continue to require increasingly intensive annual maintenance. To
      preserve the park's ability to host premier tournaments and ensure a high-
      quality playing surface, staff recommends replacing the existing asphalt
      courts with post-tension concrete courts, providing a more durable, longer-
      lasting facility and substantially reducing long-term maintenance costs.
      State law requires the Cary Town Council to approve construction
      contracts exceeding $500,000, and staff is seeking approval to award a
      contract to TCC Enterprises, Inc. in the amount of $4,140,000.

      Recommendation: That Council awards the construction bid for the Cary
      Tennis Park Post-Tension Court Renovation to TCC Enterprises, Inc. for a
      total bid amount of $4,140,000. Council’s award is a preliminary
      determination, and no legally binding acceptance of the bid or offer occurs
      until a written contract has been executed. The award is also subject to
      the contractor providing all bonds, insurance, and other required
      documents.
                                                                    August 27, 2026
                                                                             Page 5

4.6   Contract for Cary Tennis Park Court Lighting Improvements
      Speaker: Paul Webster, Facilities, Construction, and Field Services

      Executive Summary: Cary Tennis Park hosts premier collegiate and
      professional tennis and pickleball events year-round. The existing lighting
      on courts 1-12 no longer meets the illumination standards required for
      collegiate and professional nighttime competition. Staff recommends
      replacing the existing lighting and poles with a new perimeter LED lighting
      system to improve court visibility, enhance the player and spectator
      experience, and support Cary's sustainability goals through greater energy
      efficiency, reduced maintenance, and longer system life. Pursuant to a
      resolution Cary Town Council adopted that requires Council approval for
      contracts exceeding $750,000, staff is seeking approval to award a
      contract to Musco Sports Lighting, LLC in the amount of $1,149,000.

      Recommendation: That Council adopts the attached resolution approving
      award of the contract for the Cary Tennis Park Court Lighting
      Improvements Project to Musco Sports Lighting, LLC in the amount of
      $1,149,000 through the Sourcewell Cooperative Purchasing Program
      (“Program”) and authorizing the town manager, deputy town manager, or
      assistant town manager to execute an agreement through that Program
      and including Cary’s standard terms and conditions.

4.7   Contract for Utilities Residuals and Biosolids Management
      Speaker: Jamie Revels, Utilities
      Executive Summary: Cary’s utility system includes one drinking water
      treatment facility and three water reclamation facilities, which treat
      wastewater. The treatment processes at these facilities generate residuals
      that require management and disposal. Residuals and biosolids are solids
      and nutrient-rich materials removed from the water and wastewater during
      treatment processes. The primary focus of the contract with McGill
      Environmental Systems of NC (McGill) is the removal and composting of
      residuals generated at the Cary/Apex Water Treatment Facility (CAWTF).
      McGill also provides limited services to support Cary’s water reclamation
      facilities. The South Cary Water Reclamation Facility (SCWRF) and the
      Western Wake Regional Water Reclamation Facility (WWRWRF) use
      biosolids drying processes to thermally dry wastewater solids into pellets,
      which are sold and beneficially reused as fertilizer and soil amendments
      for agriculture. During maintenance periods, however, these residuals are
      removed by McGill, which uses them as feedstock for its composting
      process.
                                                                    August 27, 2026
                                                                             Page 6

      Pursuant to a resolution the Cary Town Council adopted that requires
      Council approval for contracts exceeding $750,000, staff is seeking
      approval to award a contract to McGill in an amount not to exceed
      $2,500,000 annually. If approved, this contract will allow the continued
      beneficial reuse of these residuals by McGill.
      Recommendation: That Council adopts the attached resolution
      authorizing the town manager, deputy town manager, or assistant town
      manager to execute an agreement with McGill Environmental Systems of
      NC, Inc., substantially similar to Cary’s template agreements for these
      services in an amount not to exceed $2,500,000 annually.
4.8   Bid Award for Sodium Hydroxide for Water Treatment
      Speaker: Jamie Revels, Utilities
      Executive Summary: The Cary/Apex Water Treatment Facility (CAWTF)
      uses sodium hydroxide, also known as caustic soda, to adjust pH as part
      of the drinking water process. Sodium hydroxide is delivered in bulk tanker
      trucks at a 50% concentration, with approximately 900 dry tons required
      per year. In July 2026, staff solicited bids for the annual supply of sodium
      hydroxide. Brenntag Mid-South, Inc. was the lowest responsive and
      responsible bidder. Pursuant to a resolution Cary Town Council adopted
      that requires Council approval for contracts exceeding $750,000, staff is
      seeking approval to enter into a one-year agreement with Brenntag Mid-
      South, Inc., with the option to renew for two additional one-year terms, for
      a potential total contract amount of $1,916,000.
      Recommendation: That Council awards the bid for purchase of sodium
      hydroxide to Brenntag Mid-South, Inc., for $676 per dry ton for the first
      year, with a total not to exceed amount for the potential three-year term of
      $1,916,000. Council’s award is a preliminary determination, and no legally
      binding acceptance of the bid or offer occurs until a written contract has
      been executed.
4.9   Equipment Purchase for Aquastar Meter and Radio Replacement
      Speaker: Jamie Revels, Utilities

      Executive Summary: Cary’s automated meter infrastructure (AMI)
      system, known as Aquastar, uses a combination of advanced water
      meters and a radio network to remotely collect water meter readings,
      improving the efficiency and accuracy of the meter-reading process.
      Cary’s AMI system has been in service for 15 years. Over the past three
      years, Cary has replaced approximately 30,000 first-generation AMI
                                                                      August 27, 2026
                                                                               Page 7

      meters. With that effort now complete, Cary is transitioning to an asset
      management approach that proactively replaces meters and radios as
      they reach the end of their useful service life. An annual capital project has
      been established to support these ongoing replacements and maintain the
      reliability of the AMI system.

      Cary purchases proprietary AMI meters and radios through a previously
      approved sole-source agreement. The equipment is then provided to a
      third-party contractor for installation and programming. Staff expects to
      replace approximately 4,500 meters and radios this fiscal year.
      Approximately 3,500 meters are already in-house or on order for the
      capital project. To complete the planned replacements, an additional
      1,000 meters and 4,500 radios will need to be purchased. Pursuant to a
      resolution Cary Town Council adopted that requires Council approval for
      contracts exceeding $750,000, staff is seeking approval to purchase up to
      1,000 meters and 4,500 radios through Cary’s existing sole-source
      agreement with Ferguson Enterprises at a total cost not to exceed
      $1,200,000.

      Recommendation: That Council adopts the attached resolution
      authorizing the town manager, deputy town manager, or assistant town
      manager to purchase up to 1,000 meters and 4,500 radios for Capital
      Project WT3250 through Cary’s existing sole-source agreement with
      Ferguson Enterprises at a total cost not to exceed $1,200,000.

4.10 2025 Justice Assistance Grant (JAG): Technology Equipment for Critical
     Incident Response
     Speaker: Terry Sult, Police
      Executive Summary: The 2025 Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) provides
      $13,483 in federal funding, with no local match required, to equip the Cary
      Police Department’s Technology Resource and Support Vehicle with
      portable power stations and rapid deploy kits that ensure officers have
      reliable power and connectivity when traditional infrastructure fails during
      critical incidents, mass casualty events, and weather-related emergencies.
      The funding was secured through a congressional earmark via the COPS
      Technology and Equipment Program. Recognizing and appropriating this
      grant will increase the FY 2027 General Fund revenue and expenditure
      budgets by $13,483 each.
      Recommendation: That Council recognizes and appropriates the 2025
      Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) award and authorizes the Town of Cary
      Police Department to proceed with equipment procurement, per JAG
      requirements.
                                                                    August 27, 2026
                                                                             Page 8

4.11 Agreements with Professional Pickleball Association (PPA) and Major Events
     Funds
     ** Please note the staff report was updated on 8/25/26 and those
     changes are shown in red.**

      Speaker: John Collins, Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Resources

      Executive Summary: Cary has successfully hosted and helped grow a
      Professional Pickleball Association (PPA) tournament since 2024,
      including a higher-level PPA event to be held in Cary at the Cary Tennis
      Park from Aug. 31 to Sept. 6, 2026. Cary and PPA applied for and have
      been awarded a grant of up to $984,850 from the State of North Carolina
      Department of Commerce’s Major Events, Games and Attractions
      Fund for qualifying expenses, of which up to $949,600 would be
      distributed to PPA, with the remaining $35,250 offsetting already budgeted
      Cary costs associated with the event.

      Recommendation: That Council (1) adopts the attached resolution
      approving “License Agreement – Cary Tennis Park” with PPA Enterprises,
      LLC, and the Major Events, Games, and Attractions Fund Grant with State
      of North Carolina’s Department of Commerce and authorizing the town
      manager, deputy town manager, or assistant town manager to execute
      agreements substantially like the agreements, (2) recognizes and
      appropriates $949,600 of Major Events, Games, and Attractions Funds
      grant revenue from the State of North Carolina’s Department of
      Commerce within the General Fund, and (3) authorizes disbursement of
      up to $949,600 to PPA Enterprises, LLC, in accordance with the
      agreements.

4.12 Approval of Fiscal Year 2027 Insurance Premium Payments
     Speaker: Kimberly Branch, Finance
      Executive Summary: Staff requests Council approval of commercial
      property, commercial liability, and inland marine insurance policies with
      Trident Public Risk Solutions for the 2026-2027 policy year. Cary procured
      these policies through an existing agreement with broker USI Insurance
      Services. Two of the premium payments exceeded the $750,000
      administrative approval threshold established in the delegation of authority
      resolution adopted by Council in June 2026. Given the timing of the
      premium payments, staff elected to seek Council approval for the total
      insurance premiums of $2.1 million.
      Recommendation: That Council adopts the attached resolution
      authorizing the town manager, deputy town manager, or assistant town
      manager to procure commercial property, commercial liability, and inland
                                                                           August 27, 2026
                                                                                    Page 9

            marine insurance policies from Trident Public Risk Solutions totaling
            $2,103,606.
     4.13 Town Council - Quarterly - May 14, 2026 1:00 PM

     4.14 Town Council - Work Session - May 26, 2026 5:30 PM

     4.15 Town Council - Work Session - May 28, 2026 5:00 PM

     4.16 Town Council - Regular Meeting - May 28, 2026 6:30 PM

     4.17 Town Council - Work Session - Jun 11, 2026 5:00 PM

     4.18 Town Council - Work Session - Jun 23, 2026 5:30 PM

     4.19 Town Council - Regular Meeting - Jun 25, 2026 6:30 PM

     4.20 Town Council - Emergency Meeting - Jul 16, 2026 7:30 PM

5.   PUBLIC HEARINGS
     The rules printed on the agenda for “Public Speaks Out” apply to the remainder of
     the public hearings, except that speakers are allowed five minutes. Thank you for
     respecting the business meeting by refraining from speaking from the audience,
     applauding speakers, or other actions that distract the meeting.

            Instructions For Public Hearing Participation

            Written Comments and Registered Speakers for the Public Hearing for an
            Ordinance Establishing a Temporary 18-month Moratorium on the
            Acceptance, Processing, and Approval of Development Applications for Data
            Centers.

     5.1    Public Hearing for an Ordinance Establishing a Temporary 18-month
            Moratorium on the Acceptance, Processing, and Approval of Development
            Applications for Data Centers
            Speaker: Heather Whelehan, Planning and Community Development

            Executive Summary: In May 2026, Council directed staff to bring forward
            a moratorium on the acceptance and processing of development
            applications for data centers in Cary. Data centers are a rapidly growing
            land use across the Triangle region and the country, drawing interest from
            developers due to the area’s available land, power infrastructure, and fiber
            connectivity. Data centers (and similar uses such as cryptocurrency
            mining operations) are not currently acknowledged or defined as a use in
            the Cary Land Development Ordinance (LDO), which creates uncertainty
            about how applications would be reviewed, where the use should be
                                                                         August 27, 2026
                                                                                 Page 10

           permitted, and what standards should apply to issues, such as those
           intended to mitigate noise, water consumption, energy demand, and to
           regulate site design. An 18-month moratorium, authorized under North
           Carolina General Statute 160D-107, would pause the acceptance and
           processing (including approval) of data center development applications
           while staff studies the use, engages the community and regional partners,
           and develops a recommended ordinance path for Council’s consideration.

           Recommendation: That Council holds a public hearing and considers
           adoption of the attached ordinance establishing an 18-month moratorium
           on the acceptance, processing, and approval of development applications
           for data centers, cryptocurrency mining operations, and any use
           associated with data center processing facilities within Cary’s planning
           jurisdiction.

     5.2   25-A-09 Jacobs Creek
           Speaker: Rachel Smith, Planning and Development Services
           Executive Summary: The owner of property located at 4312 Jacobs
           Creek Lane has petitioned for annexation of the property so the site may
           connect to Cary utilities in association with a request to rezone (25-REZ-
           16) for a maximum of 16 detached dwellings. On July 23, 2026, Council
           adopted a resolution to hold a public hearing on the annexation request on
           Aug. 27, 2026. Pursuant to statute, Town Council must hold a public
           hearing on the request.
           Associated Case: 25-REZ-16 Jacobs Creek Rezoning
           Recommendation: That Council conducts a public hearing and defers
           action on the requested annexation to a future Council meeting to allow
           the final vote on the annexation to coincide with the final action on the
           associated rezoning (25-REZ-16, Jacobs Creek Rezoning).
6.   DISCUSSION ITEMS (any item pulled from the CONSENT AGENDA [item 4 on
     this agenda] will be discussed during this portion of the agenda)

     6.1   Proposed Amendment to Traffic Schedule Regarding Parking
           Speaker: Terry Sult, Police

           Executive Summary: To best position Cary for continued growth and
           activity downtown, staff is proposing amending Cary’s Traffic Schedule 8
           to restrict all on-street parking along East Cedar Street from North
           Academy Street to Walker Street to increase traffic flow and limit
           congestion.

           Recommendation: That Council adopts the attached amendment to
           Traffic Schedule 8 (Prohibited Parking - All Times).
                                                                               August 27, 2026
                                                                                       Page 11

7.       CLOSED SESSION

         Closed Session will be called if necessary.

8.       ADJOURNMENT


     Please contact Town Clerk Virginia Johnson with any questions about this agenda or to
                 request an auxiliary aid or service to participate in the meeting:
             virginia.johnson@townofcary.org, 919-469-4011, TDD 919-469-4012.

Meetings are cablecast live on Cary TV on the following channels: AT&T Uverse Channel 99,
Google Channel 142 and Spectrum Channel 11. Meetings are available the following day at
                          www.youtube.com/TownofCaryChannel.
