                         ZPH2024-00024:
                 Permitted Use Text Amendments
Crypto Currency, Data Centers, and Government Protection Services
                                  Presented by


                               Gillian Phillips
                     Planning & Development Department




                                                            11/13/2024


  PURPOSE
The purpose of the proposed text amendments
will be to address the following uses in the
Buncombe County Zoning Ordinance:
  • Cryptocurrency Mining Operations
  • Data Centers
  • Government Protective Services




                                       11/13/2024


                             BACKGROUND


   Cryptocurrency Mining                                 Data Centers
May 2023: Commissioners unanimously passed        • Defined as: A group of computer servers
a moratorium on Crypto Mining facilities to         used for remote storage, processing, or
allow time for the county establish regulations     distribution of data.
                                                  • Does not include crypto mining facilities.
May 2024: Moratorium extended for 1 year          • Update and modernization of the zoning
                                                    ordinance


                                                                                       11/13/2024


                   BACKGROUND

         Government Protective Services
• New fire station proposed to be built in an area that currently does not permit

• For the safety of county visitors and residents, government protective services
  need to be permitted in all zoning districts

• Includes fire stations, police stations, e-911 centers, and EMS stations.




                                                                                11/13/2024


                               EQUITY ANALYSIS

       Cryptocurrency mining                 Data Centers                  Government Protective Services

• Often sited where land is cheap   • Supports commerce, research,       • Allowing use in all districts
• Negative impacts on the             government services, and             removes one barrier for all
  environment and surrounding         economy                              communities to have
  communities                       • Permitted in commercial zoning       increased level of service
• Potential to cause                  districts will allow for minimal
  environmental justice issues        impacts to residential and rural
                                      communities
• No jobs created, or products or
  services offered locally



                                                                                             11/13/2024


                Growth, Equity, Conservation
                • Action 6: Support the protection of agricultural and forest lands,
COMPREHENSIVE     environmentally sensitive areas, and rural communities.

    PLAN        Farms, Forests, Environment
                • Policy 2: Preserve Buncombe County’s natural heritage.
                • Policy 3: Promote ecosystem enhancement…
                Health & Recreation
                • Policy 5: Utilize environmental protection and land conservation
                  to… promote health.
                Infrastructure & Energy
                • Policy 2: Plan for the long-term sustainability of public services.
                • Action 2: Implement policies around new development and re-
                  development that advance decarbonization and sustainability
                  goals




                                                                            11/13/2024


                 OTHER JURISDICTIONS
Location                    Cryptocurrency Regulation Examples
McDowell County, NC         Total ban on cryptocurrency mining
Waynesville, NC             Total ban on cryptocurrency mining
Greenville, NC              3,400 foot setback from residences and schools, limits hours
                            of operation from 9am-5pm, limits allowable noise decibel
Haywood County, NC          750 feet setback from neighboring property lines
Clay County, NC             Total ban on cryptocurrency mining

Location                    Data Center Regulation Examples
Prince William County, VA   Data Center Overlay District. There are design standards.
Chandler, AZ                Allowed as part of Planned Area Development and must
                            comply with standards.




                                                                                        11/13/2024


    SUMMARY OF PROPOSED TEXT AMENDMENTS

•   Add the definition of Crypto-currency mining operation to the definitions section.

•   Add the definition of Data Center to the definitions section.
•   Add Government Protective Services to the Permitted Uses Table to allow it as a Use-By-Right
    in all zoning districts
•   Add Data Center (non-crypto currency) to the Permitted Uses Table, and permit it in the CS,
    EMP, PS, and AI zoning districts with Special Requirements (SR).
•   Add Special Requirement standards for Data Centers, to include: sound study, facility
    enclosure, certification of noise level, setback requirements from residential properties and
    structures, generator use hours of operation, screening requirements
•   Add Crypto-currency mining to the Permitted Use Table and prohibit it in all zoning districts


             Hearing Notification

✓CASE NUMBER: ZPH2024-00015
✓Notice on BC Website: 11/8/2024
✓Notice in Asheville Citizen-Times legal ad: 11/8/2024 and
  11/15/2024


Action by the Planning Board
• Public hearing held on 9/16/2024
• Voted unanimously to forward a recommendation of
  approval and that the amendment is consistent with
  the Comprehensive Plan to the Board of
  Commissioners.


    Requested Action by the
    Board of Commissioners
• Hold Public Hearing
• Vote on proposed text amendment with
  Comprehensive Plan consistency statement


QUESTIONS

——— a |

