  AN ORDINANCE IMPOSING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON ACCEPTANCE,
        PROCESSING, AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS FOR NEW
 TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND DATA STORAGE FACILITIES WITHIN THE CITY OF
  CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA AND ITS EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION
      PURSUANT TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTE §160D-107

WHEREAS, pursuant to North Carolina General Statute §160D-107 local governments
may adopt temporary moratoria on any development approval required by law; and

WHEREAS, on May 11, 2026, City staff provided information to the Charlotte City Council
about telecommunications and data storage facilities (“data centers”) in the City of
Charlotte corporate limits and its extraterritorial jurisdiction (“ETJ”), including: how they
are defined in the Unified Development Ordinance (“UDO”) as “a facility, accessed only
by employees, that houses computer systems and associated components, related to
the transmittal and receiving of information, including but not limited to,
telecommunications systems,         telecommunication           and telephone        switching
systems, cloud storage systems, and server farms”; the zoning districts in which are
allowed; the data center inventory in Charlotte; the impacts on water and energy
consumption; and the legal constraints with modifying certain land use requirements in
the UDO due to Session Law 2024-57 (SB 382); and

WHEREAS, the City needs time to analyze and study the unique development,
infrastructure and environmental impacts of data centers and to consider appropriate
regulatory and policy changes to address those impacts; and

WHEREAS, on May 26, 2026, the Charlotte City Council held a properly noticed
legislative public hearing on this moratorium in accordance with North Carolina General
Statute § 160D-601(a); and

WHEREAS, the Charlotte City Council recognizes that certain property and/or projects
are exempt from this moratorium under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 160D-107(c) and acknowledges
that the City of Charlotte cannot enforce this moratorium as to exempt property and/or
projects.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City of Charlotte City Council:
Section 1. A temporary moratorium is hereby imposed on the acceptance, processing
and approval of applications for new telecommunications and data storage facilities in the
City of Charlotte and its ETJ, commencing on June 8, 2026, and expiring no later than
November 5, 2026, or upon City Council approval of new regulations and/or policies
regarding data centers, whichever occurs first.

This moratorium shall not apply to facilities whose primary purpose is supporting the
internal operations of an institution, government entity, healthcare provider,
telecommunications provider, or other permitted principal use so long as such data
processing activities are not offered as a primary service to off-site users. Projects
classified as exempt in accordance with North Carolina General Statute § 160D-107(c)
are also excluded from this moratorium as a matter of law.
Section 2. In compliance with the requirements of North Carolina General Statute §
160D-107(d), the City of Charlotte makes the following statements:

   (1) Data centers, and any others uses associated with data processing facilities,
       require considerable amounts of electricity, land, and water, and their operation
       can result in noise and light pollution, the creation of heat islands, and other
       environmental impacts to residents and communities living near the facilities. The
       City of Charlotte seeks time to research and analyze these rapidly evolving and
       intense land use types to assess potential harms to the natural environment and
       quality of life of City residents and to develop standards to address the same. The
       City has looked at alternative solutions to a moratorium and did not find a sufficient
       approach, largely due to state law. The City is constrained from modifying certain
       land use requirements in the UDO due to Session Law 2024-57 (SB 382) which
       limits the ability of local governments to down-zone property without the written
       consents of all affected property owners.
   (2) This moratorium applies to the acceptance, processing and approval of
       applications for new telecommunications and data storage facilities as defined in
       the UDO. The conditions leading to the moratorium are the emergence of data
       centers, in particular hyperscale facilities, and the need to address the impacts of
       their operation on factors including, but not limited to, water consumption, energy
       demand, noise, and land use compatibility. A moratorium on data center approvals
       will provide the City of Charlotte with the opportunity to conduct meaningful
       research on the effects of these uses; develop appropriate regulations as are
       necessary to ensure organized and responsible growth without sacrificing
       progress towards comprehensive plan goals and policies; and determine the best
       regulatory framework given Charlotte’s existing treatment of data centers as a
       monolithic land use.
   (3) The moratorium shall begin on June 8, 2026, and shall end on November 5, 2026,
       or upon the adoption of specific standards addressing the uses of data centers,
       telecommunications and data storage facilities, and associated uses and any
       necessary amendments, whichever comes first. The 150-day moratorium is
       necessary to allow sufficient time for the City to analyze the unique development,
       infrastructure and environmental impacts of data centers and prepare to consider
       appropriate regulatory and policy changes to address those impacts.
   (4) The City of Charlotte will study the impacts of these facilities within the first 75 days
       of the moratorium. Concurrently, the City will investigate how other communities in
      North Carolina and across the United States have addressed these impacts
      through regulations. The City of Charlotte will create an interdisciplinary workgroup
      to convene on policy and impact analyses during this time. Subsequently, in the
      final 75 days, any necessary City Code amendments or policy updates will be
      proposed which will follow the appropriate legislative process for adoption. The
      research, policy development, and legislative processes necessitate an adequate
      moratorium limit of 150 days.

Section 3. If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase, or part of this ordinance is
declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed this ordinance, and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause, or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more section,
subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared invalid.

Section 4. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed
to the extent of such conflict.

Section 5. This Ordinance is effective upon adoption.

Adopted this the 8th day of June, 2026
