TABIED
                         %
PAS S E D                                                          CHEROKEE COUNCIL HOUSE
                                                                CHEROKEE, NORTH CAROLINA

                                                                                   APR 0 2 2026
                                                                          Date:


                                   ORDINANCE NO.       @0026)
          An ordinance amending Chapter 47E to ban data centers on EBCI Tribal lands.


   WHEREAS      Section 23 of the EBCI Charter and Governing Document vests Tribal Council
                with the power to adopt laws and regulations for the general government of the

                Tribe, including governing the management of real and person property held by
                the Tribe; and


   WHEREAS      high impact digital infrastructure facilities (herein referred to as data centers)
                present a clear and present danger to the lands and people of the Eastern Band of
                Cherokee Indians; and


   WHEREAS      these facilities have often been forced on rural areas in western North Carolina
                and have made the quality of life considerably worse for those who live
                                                                                           nearby
                them; and

   WHEREAS      these facilities require an enormous amount of water to operate and we recognize
                that our water is sacred and should not be used for this purpose; and


   WHEREAS      it is well documented that these facilities create a humming sound which causes
                nearby residents to develop health problems of both a physical and mental variety;
                and


   WHEREAS      as we all   know we as a Tribe have limited excess land and we believe that the
                land within EBCI Trust and deeded lands should be devoted to causes which help
                and uplift our people rather than harm them; and


   WHEREAS      we are   stewards of our land and should be proactive in protecting it and our Tribal
                members and this Ordinance amendment will accomplish the goal of enacting an
                            moratorium on building, constructing, or maintaining these data
                centers; and


   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED that Tribal Council in Annual Council assembled and
                with a quorum present as provided by law hereby adopts the following Ordinance
                amendment to Chapter 47E Of the Cherokee Code:


   Chapter 47E-5. Data Center Development Moratorium.

      (a) The Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians         and declares that nearbv land has become a
         hub for data center development. and the exponential growth of these facilities has
      created a strain on essential resources and the power grid. jeopardizes          water

      supplies. and presents a substantial risk to local infrastructure. Data centers create noise
      p_ollution from cooling systems and generators. impact local air gualitv from generator
      emissions. and reguire massive power usage to operate.


  (b) The Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians             that these data centers consume large tracts
      of land which are more appropriatelv used for other pugmses which are                    to our

      people. Development of these centers on Tribal lands would violate our role as stewards
      of our sacred lands.


   (c) The current legal framework is inadequate to properlv manage the scale and impact of
       this industg within Tribal lands and it is necessarv to enact this legislation to protect the

      public health, safeg', and welfare of the enrolled members of the Eastern Band of
       Cherokee Indians.


   (d) A data center is a large scale facilitv, campus of facilities, or array of interconnected
       facilities which house working servers and that are develorgd to cool. secure and connect
       data associated with applications and services.


   (e) A data center as           in subsection (d) is herebv prohibited on EBCl Tribal lands and
       no Tribal   infrastructure or resources shall be used or          to aid in the building.

       construction. or maintenance ofanv data center. Servers used in the ordinarv course of
       business for the Tribal government. Tribal entities. or legitimate businesses operating
       pursuant to a            Tribal Business License are not data centers for the purpose of this
       moratorium.


   (t) This moratorium shall remain in etTect



BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED that this ordinance is effective upon                        of the Principal
               Chief.


BE IT FINALLY ORDAINED that all prior inconsistent ordinances are rescinded.




Submitted by: Lavita Hill, BigCove Council Representative; Venita Wolfe, BigCove Council
              Representative; Shannon Swimmer, Painttown Council Representative; and
               Shennelle Feather, Yellowhill Council Representative
 The attached Resolution/Ordinance                                 158       dated _APRlL 2, 2026 _was:
                   PASSED     ( X       )
                   KILLED     (     )
 and ratified in open Council on                               MAY 7, 2026    by   94   voting for the act
 and _l.')_ members voting against it as follows:


                    VOTE                             8 :u                    AGAINST                    ABSTAIN           ABSENT
Lavita Hill
Venita Wolfe

Boyd Owle
                                                      XX
Michael Smoker
Shennelle Feather
David Wolfe

Adam Wachacha
Mike Parker
Bo Crowe
Jim Owle

Shannon Swimmer
Michael Stamper




       0/                                                                                       Wkh.mMWw
                   iiiBAL                       CHAIRMAN                                                    ENGLISH dLERK

               /
           /
       l
                                                           _




 lv/
                       PRINCIPAL (BRIEF
                                                                                                APPROVED       (/     VETOED (   )


           VETO UPHELD(                     )VETO DENIED(             )                         DATE:      '

                                                                                                               Z 3'

   I hereby certify that the foregoing act of the Council was
                                                                                        duly:
                            PASSED          (    )
                            KILLED          (    )
and ratified in open Council after the same has been
                                                                               interpreted by the Official Interpreter and
has been fully and freely discussed.




INTERPRETED(                  )                                                                 OMITTED(       )
