                    Agenda for the City Council Regular Meeting
                          Tuesday, August 25, 2026 6:00 PM
     Council Chambers at City Hall 101 West Gold Street Kings Mountain, NC 28086

1.   Call to Order and Determination of a Quorum - Robert C. Wagman, Mayor

2.   Invocation - Pastor Jonathan Bundon, First Baptist Church, Kings Mountain, NC (Please stand
     for Invocation and remain standing for Pledge of Allegiance)

3.   Pledge of Allegiance - Robert C. Wagman, Mayor

4.   Motion to adopt the proposed Agenda (Only emergency items shall be added to the agenda.
     Emergency shall be defined and requested by the City Manager. Upon approval of the Mayor and City
     Council the item will be added. Consent Items will be adopted with a single motion, second, and vote
     unless a request for removal from the Consent agenda is heard from a Councilmember)

5.   Special Presentations and Recognitions

     A.       A Proclamation honoring Tom Best and Karen Moss upon the closing of Swoogers -
              Mayor Robert Wagman

6.   Citizen Recognition Persons wishing to appear before Council during this portion of the meeting are
     required to sign up prior to the start of the meeting. In an effort to maintain order and decorum, we would
     encourage speakers to be courteous and respectful while citizen input is heard. Please refrain from
     profanity, inappropriate gestures, insults, personal attacks, or accusations. Citizens should not expect
     Councilmembers to respond to their comments during the course of the meeting. If follow up is needed,
     the Mayor, or presiding officer may ask the speaker to provide contact information to the City Clerk so
     that Staff may assist. In an effort to allow for a fair allotment of time, each Speaker will be limited to
     three (3) minutes. Based upon the number of people signed up to speak, Council may elect to adjust the
     time limitations for all speakers or assign a time limit for the entire Citizen Recognition period.

7.   Mayor, Councilmember and City Manager Remarks

8.   Program and Project Updates

     A.       Presentation and update regarding the Gateway Trail - Shirley Brutko, Director.

9.   Motion to Adopt the Following Consent Agenda:

     A.       Adopt the Minutes of the Regular Meeting of Tuesday, June 23, 2026.

     B.       Adopt a Resolution to award a financing contract to United Financial, a division of
              HomeTrust Bank, in the amount of $399,767.

     C.       Adopt a Resolution to award a financing contract to United Financial, a division of
              HomeTrust Bank, in the amount of $739,018.
                                                                                                                   1
      D.       Adopt a Resolution authorizing the donation of a 2012 Kenworth T300 Truck to
               Cleveland Community College.

      E.       Appoint Ben Torres as Chairperson of the Kings Mountain ABC Board.

10.   Public Hearing
      Persons wishing to appear before Council during this portion of the meeting are required to sign up for
      the specific Public Hearing that they would like to give input prior to the start of the meeting. Speakers
      will be called in the order in which they are signed up and may only provide comments that are directly
      related to the subject matter for the specific Public Hearing. To avoid unnecessary repetition, individuals
      supporting the same position should designate a spokesperson to represent the group. In an effort to
      allow for a fair allotment of time, each speaker will be limited to three (3) minutes. If a Public Hearing is
      well-attended, Council may elect to adjust the time limitations for all speakers signed up to speak at the
      hearing.

      A.       Consider a Map Amendment to the City of Kings Mountain Zoning Map Changing a
               Subdivided Portion of Parcel 11212, located at 110 Camelot Court from Suburban
               Residential (SR) to Rural (RU) - Brad Lagano, Planning Director.

      B.       (Action on Item 10A) Motion to (approve/deny) the rezoning request for changing a
               subdivided portion of Parcel 11212 located at 110 Camelot Court from Suburban
               Residential (SR) to Rural (RU). The requested zoning district is (reasonable/not
               reasonable) (and/or) is (consistent/not consistent) with the proposed Future Land
               Use (FLU) Map designation of Rural (RU).

      C.       Consider a Moratorium Extension on Permitting New Data Centers - Henry Earle,
               Assistant City Manager.

      D.       (Action on Item 10C) Motion to (adopt/deny) an Ordinance to extend the existing
               moratorium on permitting new data centers for an additional twelve months.

      E.       (Action on Item 10C) Motion to (adopt/deny) an Ordinance to extend the existing
               moratorium on permitting new data centers for an additional six months.

      F.       Consider entering into a Contract with Kings Mountain Forward, Inc. for ongoing
               services in support of the Municipal Service District, the Downtown, and small
               business corridors within the City of Kings Mountain - Jana Williams, Finance
               Director.

      G.       (Action on Item 10F) Motion to authorize the Mayor to enter into a Contract with
               Kings Mountain Forward, Inc. for ongoing services in support of the Municipal
               Services District; the Downtown; and small business services corridors within the City
               of Kings Mountain.

11.   Regular Meeting

      A.       Motion to adopt an Ordinance to demolish and remove the dilapidated dwelling and
               accessory structure located at 200 E. King Street - Clint Houser, Director of
               Inspections and Codes.

      B.       Motion to adopt an Ordinance to demolish and remove the dilapidated dwelling and
               accessory structure located at 825 Floyd Street - Clint Houser, Director of Inspections
                                                                                                                      2
                  and Codes.

         C.       Motion to adopt an Ordinance designating Hendricks Street as a one-way street from E.
                  King Street to E. Ridge Street, as a one-way street with travel permitted only in the
                  northbound direction - Chief Gerald Childress.

         D.       Motion to adopt an Ordinance to repeal and replace Title XI: General Business,
                  Chapter 115: Peddlers and Solicitors, of the City of Kings Mountain Code of
                  Ordinance, in its entirety - Mickey Corry, City Attorney.

         E.       Motion to approve a budget amendment in the amount of $125,000 to the IT
                  Department for the purpose of covering insufficient funding due to increased pricing
                  from the time of original budgetary quotes - Matthew Dull, IT Director.

         F.       Discussion and possible action regarding a hiring freeze and/or possible elimination of
                  a position as it relates to the currently vacant second Asst. City Manager position -
                  Councilmember Scott Neisler.

         G.       Discussion and possible action regarding Moss Lake Camping fees - Mayor Robert
                  Wagman.

12.      Motion to close the Regular Meeting and enter into a Closed Session to discuss matters relating
         to the location or expansion of business in the area served by this body under N.C.G.S. 142-
         318.11(a)(4).

13.      Closed Session

14.      Motion to close the Closed Session and re-enter the Regular Meeting.

15.      Motion to Adjourn

         Thank you for attending tonight’s meeting. Citizens may not approach the Dais after the
         meeting is adjourned and should exit City Hall immediately after the meeting has ended. If
         you have items that you would like to leave for Council or City Staff, please see the City Clerk
         at the podium. City Hall will be locked fifteen minutes after adjournment.



The City of Kings Mountain would like to ensure that people with disabilities have the ability to access its meetings,
programs, and activities. Should you require assistance to participate in a meeting of the City of Kings Mountain City
Council, please contact the City Clerk at least 5 business days before the event.




                                                                                                                         3
