BILL GOINS                                                 Ts
                                                        ~
C hairman
Mount Airy District                                                                               CHRIS KNOP F
                                                                                                  County Manager


                                                      ~
EDD IE HARRIS
Vice-Chairma n
South District
                                                                                                 HOWARD JO!'iES
MARK MARIO!\                                                                                      County Attorney
Central District

i\lELISSA IIIA"IT
i\Iount Airy District
                                         BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
VAN T UC KER                                       Historic Courth ouse
East District                                      114 W, Atkins Street
                                                   Dobson, NC 27017




             ORDINANCE EXTENDING THE TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS
           FOR DATA CENTERS AND RELATED HIGH-IMPACT FACILITIES IN ALL AREAS SUBJECT TO SURRY
                                COUNTY ZONING AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION


         WHEREAS, the Surry County Board of Commissioners (the "Board") is responsible for promoting
         the health, safety, and general welfare of the County's residents;

         WHEREAS, North Carolina General Statute§ 160D-107 authorizes local governments to adopt
         t emporary moratoria on development approvals under certain conditions;

         WHEREAS, the Board has observed a recent increase in inquiries and potential applications for
         high-impact facilities, specifically data centers within the unincorporated areas of the County;

         WHEREAS, th ese types of facilities present unique challenges and potential impacts not
         adequately addressed by the County's current Development Ordinance;

         WHEREAS, the County's existing regulations were not developed with these specific types of
         high impact uses in mind, and the County needs time to develop appropriate, comprehensive
         standards to ensure that any future development of such facilities is consistent with the
         County's long-term land use plan and protects the public interest;

         WHEREAS, a t emporary moratorium on accepting and processing new applications for such
         facilities is a reasonable and necessary measure to allow County staff and the Planning Board
         sufficient time to study the issues, engage with stakeholders, and draft appropriate
         amendments to the Development Ordinance;

         WHEREAS, on June 1, 2026, after holding a duly noticed public hea ring, the Board adopted an
         Ordinance Imposing a Temporary Moratorium on Development Approvals for Data Centers and
         Related High-Impact Facilities in All Areas Subject to Surry County Zoning Authority and
         Jurisdiction for sixty (60) days ("the Data Center Moratorium" );

         WHERERAS, thereafter the County undertook the followin g actions:




                                                           1
       a.      Development Services conducted further research into data centers and the
       issues related thereto and continued working on possible amendments to the
       Development Ordinance to address data centers.

       b.      At the June 8, 2026, regularly scheduled Planning Board meeting, Development
       Services provided the Planning Board with the results of their research and analysis and
       also the then current preliminary draft of possible text amendments to the Development
       Ordinance related to data centers. The Planning Board conducted a review and
       discussion of the same. The Planning Board advised the Director of Development
       Services that the Planning Board did not believe that the amendments were ready for
       formal Planning Board review and that the Planning Board lacked sufficient information
       to conduct a formal thereof without further time for work and study, and what it would
       hope to accomplish during said additional time.


       c.     At the Next regularly scheduled Board of Commissioners Meeting on June 15,
       2026, the Director of Development Services presented a summary of the Planning
       Board's recommendations to the Board of Commissioners. The Board also reviewed
       then current state of possible draft amendments to the Development Ordinance and
       questioned and received input from the Director of Development Services and County
       Attorney and discussed the same during open session. The Board then directed the
       Director of Development to publish the required notice to hold a public hearing on July
       20, 2026, on whether to extend the Data Center Moratorium.

       d.      Thereafter, the Director of Development Services duly noticed a public hearing
       for July 20, 2026, on whether to extend the Data Center Moratorium.



WHEREAS, the Board finds that the length of the Data Center Moratorium is not sufficient for the
County to legislate on the complicated issue of data centers and that an extension of the Data
Center Moratorium is reasonably necessary to protect the public interest and welfare of the
County's residents until appropriate regulations regarding the development of data centers can
be adopted.

NOW, THEREFORE, be it now ordained by the Surry County Board of Commissioners as follows:

Section 1.     Moratorium Extended. The Data Center Moratorium is hereby extended
through and including July 20, 2028. During this period, the County shall not accept, process, or
approve any applications for the following development approvals: Special Use Permits; Zoning
Map Amendments; Building Permits (except for existing lawful uses for interior renovations
that do not expand capacity or impact exterior appearance/noise); and any other development
approval required by law; for the establishment, construction, erection, alteration, or expansion
of any data center.




                                                2
Section 2.     Effective Date, Duration and Termination. This extension in full force and effect
from its adoption on July 20, 2026, and the Data Center Moratorium shall last through and
including midnight July 20, 2028, unless earlier terminated, or modified by the Board in
accordance with North Carolina law. The stated duration is reasonably necessary to address
the problems identified herein.


Section 3.         Application and Definition. For the purposes of this ordinance, "data center" is
defined as any building or group of buildings containing one or more large-scale computer
systems or networked server computers or other similar or related equipment, for data storage,
data processing, web hosting, program development, application hosting, streaming services,
artificial intelligence, artificial intelligence training, quantum computer development, or other
related or similar uses, processes, work, or services. Typical supporting equipment may include
mechanical and electrical equipment, redundant power supply connections, redundant data
communications connections, power generators, cooling units, and enhanced security features.


For the purposes of this Ordinance, the term "data center" shall also include "cryptocurrency
mining" and other comparable land uses, and the terms shall be used interchangeably. The
terms "cryptocurrency mining," as well as "crypto mining," or "crypto mining operation" shall
be defined as any building or group of buildings containing one or more large-scale computer
systems or networked server computers for computationally intensive applications such as
blockchain technology, validating blockchain transactions, cryptocurrency mining, and other
similar functions.

This definition and ordinance shall not apply to use of data processing equipment which is
clearly incidental and subordinate to the permitted principal use which is currently clearly
identified and listed in the Table of Uses in the Surry County Development Ordinance and is
intended solely to support only the on-site operations of such principal use. Such principal uses
may include, without limitation, hospitals, medical facilities, financial institutions, offices,
educational institutions, or similar uses, provided such data processing activities are not offered
to, or used by, off-site users, or off-site locations.

Section 4.     Statement of the Problems or Conditions and Alternatives Considered.


       a.      Adverse issues associated with data centers. Data centers present serious
       problems which may negatively impact Surry County and the welfare of its citizens,
       including but not limited to:

               i.      Extremely high energy consumption and strain.

               ii.    Significant noise generation from cooling systems and backup
                       generators, affecting adjacent residential areas and general quality of
                       life.


                                                 3
       iii.   Substantial water u~age for cooling purposes.

       iv.     Environmental impacts, including hazardous material storage and
                electronic waste disposal.

       v.      Land use compatibility concerns, particularly in or in the vicinity of
                schools, places of worship, places of public recreation, and other
                sensitive locations, and in or in the vicinity of rural, residential, or
                agricultural zoned districts and/or uses.

       vi.     Negative impacts on the rural, scenic, and bucolic assets and way of
                life which make Surry County unique.

b. Necessity for Development Ordinance amendments. Data centers are not included
in the permitted uses listed in the Table of Uses in Section 154.007 of the Surry County
Development Ordinance, meaning data centers are permitted for the use listed in the
Table of Uses that most closely generates the same land use impacts. There is no single
use listed in the Table of Uses that uses the amounts of water and electricity and
generates the combined environmental impacts as data centers. The Board finds that, in
addition to amendment of the Development Ordinance to specifically address data
centers, different zoning and development controls, such as a special use permit or
development agreement, may be necessary and appropriate for data centers and should
be fully explored, and that a moratorium is needed to pause development approvals to
allow the County time to accomplish the same.

c.      Alternative Course of Action considered. The Board has considered alternative
courses of action, such as relying on the existing Development Ordinance, existing
general use permits, or a hastily considered zoning text amendment, but has determined
these are inadequate and that the County needs additional time to research and
develop specific performance standards (e.g., noise limits, utility capacity requirements,
setbacks) needed to mitigate the unique impacts of data centers effectively. Data
centers, their impacts and the measures needed to protect County citizens, present
complex issues and require time to assess. For these reasons, the Board finds that there
is not a viable alternative to a moratorium.

d.       Finding of necessity to extend the Data Center Moratorium. The Board finds
that it is reasonably necessary to extend the Data Center Moratorium through July 20,
2028, in order for the County to become more educated in the impacts of data centers
on Surry County and possible land use regulations to address the same by engaging in
the work and tasks outlined in Section 5 below. The new facts justifying this extension
are that the County has learned that the issues regarding data centers, the technologies
involved, the impacts of data centers, and possible land use regulation, present complex
issues which will take significant time to resolve. The Planning Board has summarized


                                          4
       the work that needs to be done to gain a better understanding of these issues before
       legislating. This work will take a large amount of time and will take at least two years
       from the date of this ordinance to complete.



Section 5.      Plan of Action and Schedule of Actions to be taken During the Moratorium.

       a.      Now through September 21, 2026, Development Services is directed to further
       their research on the issues related to data centers and continue work on drafting
       possible amendments to the Development Ordinance to address data centers.

       b.     By the regularly scheduled Board of County Commissioners meeting on
       September 21, 2026: the Board of County Commissioners shall make reasonable efforts
       to appoint a Data Center Steering Committee; and:


             1. The Steering Committee shall be comprised of members of the Board of County
                Commissioners, members of the Planning Board, staff, and any additional people
                the Board deems advisable;

             2. The Steering Committee shall hold meetings which shall be open for the public to
                attend; however, the Steering Committee is not required to allow public
                comment at their regular meetings;

             3. To the extent practicable, the meetings should take place either monthly or every
                two months, with the schedule to be determined by the Steering Committee;

             4. Steering Committee members may attend meetings remotely for convenience or
                necessity;

             5. The function of the Steering Committee is to serve as fact-finding and advisory to
                the Board of County Commissioners and the Planning Board;

             6. Development Services shall make regular reports on the progress of the Steering
                Committee to the Board of County Commissioners and the Planning Board;

             7. The Steering Committee shall undertake to accomplish the following during the
                pendency of this moratorium:


                (i)    Visit a data center or multiple data centers to gain a firsthand view of
                potential impacts;




                                                 5
              (ii)    Solicit input from citizens by holding meetings where the public may give
              their input;

              (iii)    Solicit input from other stakeholders;

              (iv)  Obtain information about Surry County's electrical grid and how this may
              be impacted by data centers;

              (v)    Obtain information about Surry County's surface and ground water
              resources and how the same may be impacted by data centers;

              (vi)     Obtain information about the possible negative impacts of data centers;

              (vii)   Obtain more information about the possible technologies that may be
              available to ameliorate the potential negative impacts of data centers;

              (viii)   Obtain information about the possible benefits of data centers;

              (iv)   Monitor the North Carolina Legislature's progress in legislation
              concerning data centers;

              (x)   Survey land use regulations enacted by other North Carolina local
              governments regarding data centers;

              (xi)   Gather such other facts and information as the Steering Committee
              deems important to understanding the impacts of data centers and possible land
              use regulation regarding the same; and

              (xii)   Work and coordinate with Development Services to put together options
              for land use regulations concerning data centers for consideration by the
              Planning Board and the Board of County Commissioners.


Section 6.     Scope and Exemptions. This moratorium shall apply to all unincorporated areas
of Surry County subject to County zoning authority. Exemptions include any development that
has received valid development approval in accordance with G.S. 160D-107(c) prior to the
effective date of this ordinance.

Section 7.    Conflict with Other Ordinances. The provisions of any other ordinance of Surry
County which conflict with the terms of this Moratorium are temporarily superseded by this
Ordinance while this Moratorium is in effect, but not thereafter.




                                                6
Section 8.    Severability. If any section or part of this Ordinance is declared inval id or
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect the validity of
the remaining sections or parts.



       This Ordinance is adopted by the Surry County Board of Commissioners after
       conducting a duly noticed legislative hearing on July 20, 2026.

       Adopted on this the 20t h day of July 2026.

       SURRY COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS




                                              Bill Goins

                                              Title : Chairman, Board of Commissioners




     drew Wright, Clerk to the Board




                                                 7
