                                                                                       AGENDA
                                                                    MAYODAN TOWN COUNCIL
                                                                                  July 13, 2026
                                                                                      6:00 p.m.
                                                            James A. Collins Municipal Building
CALL TO ORDER

PRAYER:
Given by Pastor Alexis Coleman of United Methodist Church

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:
Pledge of Allegiance led by Mayor Lake and Councilmembers

PUBLIC COMMENTS


RECOGNITION:
   A. Public Works employee Adam Tilley has successfully earned his Cross-Connection Control
      Certification.
   B. Introduction of New Employee – Camerson Smith, Public Works Technician I
   C. Introduction of New Employee – Colby Hollis, Wastewater Treatment Plant Apprentice
   D. Introduction of New Employee- Brandi Shelton, Billing Clerk/PW Admin.
   E. Introduction of New Employee- Verlyria Ellington, Billing Clerk

CONSENT AGENDA:
  A. Approval of Minutes
        a. Regular Meeting Minutes of June 4, 2026
        b. Regular Meeting Minutes of June 8, 2026

   B. Code Enforcement Officer ILA
   C. Multi-use Path US 220 Business Agreement 2026
   D. WWTP Maintenance Contract with Eden


OLD BUSINESS:
  A. Speed Limit Ordinance

NEW BUSINESS:
  A. Annexation Initiation – 270 Dan Valley Road

CLOSED SESSION:

MANAGER COMMENTS/ANNOUNCEMENTS

DEPARTMENT HEAD COMMENTS/ANNOUNCEMENTS

COUNCIL COMMENTS/ANNOUNCEMENTS

ADJOURN


                                                                                   AGENDA MINUTES
                                                                           MAYODAN TOWN COUNCIL
                                                                                          June 4, 2026
                                                                                             6:00 p.m.
                                                                   James A. Collins Municipal Building
MAYOR AND COUNCIL PRESENT:
Mayor Dwight Lake
Melanie Barnes
Doug Cardwell
Letitia Goard
John Miller
Buck Shelton

STAFF PRESENT:
Town Attorney Eugene Russell
Town Manager Melody Shuler
Town Clerk Sarah Hopper

The Mayodan Town Council met at 6:00 p.m. on Thursday, June 4, 2026, in the Council Chambers of the James
A. Collins Municipal Building, and with a quorum present, Mayor Lake called the meeting to order. Mayor Lake
went over the agenda items for the regular meeting scheduled for Monday, June 8, 2026.

Town Manager Melody Shuler introduced the Town's new Wastewater ORC, Joel Freeman, to the
Council.
Mr. Freeman addressed the Council regarding the current condition of the Wastewater Treatment Plant.
He explained that the plant does not have a SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) system,
which limits the ability to remotely monitor and control plant operations. During his first day on the job,
he identified numerous operational and maintenance issues, noting that the facility is showing its age
and is in need of significant improvements.
Mr. Freeman informed the Council that several upgrades are already planned, with completion
anticipated by the end of 2026 or early 2027. He reported that new pumps are expected to arrive during
the first week of August and that work is planned on the aeration basins, including the removal of trees
and vegetation that have impacted the area.
Mr. Freeman also reported that the influent pump station experienced a failure. To address the issue, he
secured a crane, and the Town's Public Works Department assisted Wastewater staff in completing the
necessary repairs and restoring operations.

Councilmember Cardwell asked to have the junk removal from the consent agenda.

Councilmember Doug Cardwell thanked Town Manager Melody Shuler for the outstanding job she did
in preparing the Fiscal Year 2026–2027 budget.

Parks Superintendent Cesar Chavez clarified a statement he made during the April 23, 2026, Council
meeting. He informed the Council that he had misspoken and clarified that the Farris Memorial Park
miniature golf course (putt-putt) has been closed and locked since March 2026.

Motion by Councilmember Goard, seconded by Councilmember Shelton, to enter into closed session
pursuant to N.C.G.S. 143-318.11(a)(3)] Consult with Attorney.
Ayes: Councilmembers Barnes, Cardwell, Goard, Miller, and Shelton.
Nays: None.


Motion carried unanimously.
Entered into closed session at 7:10 p.m.

Motion by Councilmember Barnes, seconded by Councilmember Cardwell, to return to open session.
Ayes: Councilmembers Barnes, Cardwell, Goard, Miller, and Shelton.
Nays: None.
Motion carried unanimously.
Returned to open session at 7:48 p.m.

Motion by Councilmember Barnes, seconded by Councilmember Miller, to adjourn meeting.
Ayes: Councilmembers Barnes, Cardwell, Goard, Miller, and Shelton
Nays: None.
Motion: carried unanimously

Meeting adjourned at 7:49 p.m.



ATTEST:




 Sarah Hopper, Town Clerk                                           Dwight Lake, Mayor


                                                 0                              REGULAR
                                                                            MEETING MINUTES
                                                                      MAYODAN TOWN COUNCIL
                                                                                     June 8, 2026
                                                                                        6:00 p.m.
                                                              James A. Collins Municipal Building
MAYOR AND COUNCIL PRESENT:
Mayor Dwight Lake
Mayor ProTem John Miller
Melanie Barnes
Doug Cardwell
Letitia Goard
Buck Shelton

STAFF PRESENT:
Town Attorney Eugene Russell
Town Manager Melody Shuler
Town Clerk Sarah Hopper

The Mayodan Town Council met at 6:00 pm on June 8, 2026, in the Council room of the James A.
Collins Municipal Building, and with a quorum present, Mayor Lake called the meeting to order.

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE:

PUBLIC COMMENTS:
No one wished to speak.

RECOGNITION:
    A. Black Mountain Software Training Completion
The presentation highlighted the Town of Mayodan's successful participation in the North Carolina
League of Municipalities (NCLM) Municipal Accounting Services (MAS) Program, an initiative
designed to strengthen municipal financial management through modern accounting software, technical
assistance, and the implementation of best financial practices. The Town was recognized for its
successful conversion to the new financial management system and the improvements made to its
financial operations.
During the presentation, appreciation was expressed to the North Carolina State Legislature for
funding the MAS Program, the Town of Mayodan Board for its support throughout the conversion
process, and the Local Government Commission (LGC) for partnering with the Town and NCLM to
enhance financial accountability and reliability.
Special recognition was also given to Brianna Cardwell, Finance Officer, and Sarah Hopper, Town
Clerk, for their hard work, dedication, and commitment in helping make the Town of Mayodan a
successful, thriving, and well-managed community.


    B. New Police Officer Michael Michaux
Police Chief Tim Knight introduced the Town's newest Police Officer, Michael Michaux, to the Council.
Chief Knight shared that Officer Michaux joins the Mayodan Police Department after previously serving
with the Rockingham County Sheriff's Office. He expressed his enthusiasm for having Officer Michaux
join the department and welcomed him to the Town of Mayodan.


   C. New Wastewater Treatment Plant ORC Joel Freeman
Town Manager Melody Shuler introduced Joel Freeman to the Town Council as the Town's newly hired
Operator in Responsible Charge (ORC) for the Wastewater Treatment Plant. Mr. Freeman joins the
Town of Mayodan from the City of Winston-Salem. Council welcomed Mr. Freeman to the Town of
Mayodan.

    D. Recognition of Lucy Lewis for Service Through the Lead for North Carolina Program
Mayor Dwight Lake recognized Lucy Lewis for her dedicated service and leadership through the Lead
for North Carolina program. He thanked Ms. Lewis for her hard work, professionalism, and the
meaningful contributions she made during her time with the Town of Mayodan. Mayor Lake read a
Certificate of Appreciation recognizing her commitment and lasting impact on the community and
presented the certificate to Ms. Lewis. Council joined Mayor Lake in expressing their appreciation and
wishing her continued success in her future endeavors.

CONSENT AGENDA :
    A. Approval of Minutes
           a. Regular Meeting Minutes of May 11, 2026
           b. Budget Workshop Minutes of May 18, 2026
    B. Budget Amendments
    C. AFG Grant Resolution
    D. SAFER Grant Resolution 2026
Motion by Councilmember Miller, seconded by Councilmember Barnes, to approve the consent agenda
as presented.
Ayes: Councilmembers Barnes, Cardwell, Goard, Miller, and Shelton
Nays: None.
Motion carried unanimously

PUBLIC HEARING:
    A. Public Hearing & Decision - Proposed Budget FY26-27
FY 2026–2027 Annual Budget Adoption
Town Manager Shuler presented the proposed Fiscal Year 2026–2027 Annual Budget to the Town
Council in accordance with the North Carolina Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act. She
explained that the budget reflects the priorities established during the annual budget process and is
balanced in all funds. The proposed budget continues the Town's commitment to providing quality
public services, maintaining infrastructure, and investing in capital improvements while preserving the
Town's strong financial position. She also noted that the proposed property tax rate will remain
unchanged at $0.665 per $100 of assessed valuation.

Town Manager Shuler recommended adoption of the following budget ordinances:

   •   FY 2026–2027 Operating Budgets
          o General Fund: $5,306,000
          o Water & Sewer Fund: $4,407,000
   •   FY 2026–2027 Capital Improvement Program (CIP) Budgets
          o General Fund: $5,566,000
          o Water & Sewer Fund: $1,945,200


Town Manager Shuler also presented ordinance amendments for the following multi-year project funds:

   •   Washington Mills Park Fund: $2,439,220
   •   Town Hall & Police Department Conversions Fund: $595,000
   •   Multi-Use Path US 220 Business Fund: $2,160,000

In addition, Council was asked to establish the following new project ordinances:

   •   Farris Memorial Park Trail Expansion: $251,200
   •   2nd Avenue Water Main Replacement: $1,300,000

Following discussion, Council adopted the FY 2026–2027 Operating Budget Ordinances, Capital
Improvement Program Budget Ordinances, the project ordinance amendments, and the new project
ordinances as presented.

Mayor Lake opened the public hearing at 6:18 pm
No questions or comments from the public.
Mayor Lake closed the public hearing at 6:30 pm

Motion by Councilmember Cardwell, seconded by Councilmember Shelton, to approve 2026-2027 FY
Budget as presented, with no change in tax rate of $0.665 per $100 of valuation.
Ayes: Councilmembers Barnes, Cardwell, Goard, Miller, and Shelton
Nays: None
Motion carried unanimously
****A copy of the Budget Ordinance 2026-2027 FY is hereby referred to as a part of these minutes, and
a copy is on file in the Town Clerk’s office for public viewing. ****


Motion by Councilmember Goard, seconded by Councilmember Cardwell, to approve 2026-2027 FY
approved the following Capital Improvement Fund Ordinances and amendments as presented: Capital
Improvement Fund Ordinance for the Library Conversion and Police Department Expansion Project; the
amended Capital Improvement Fund Ordinance for the US 220 Business Multi-Use Path Project; the
amended Capital Improvement Fund Ordinance for the Washington Mills Park Project; Capital
Improvement Fund Ordinance for the 2nd Avenue Water Main Replacement Project; and Capital
Improvement Fund Ordinance for the Farris Memorial Park Trail Expansion Project.
Ayes: Councilmembers Barnes, Cardwell, Goard, Miller, and Shelton.
Nays: None.
Motion carried unanimously.
****A copy of the 2026-2027 FY Operating Budget Ordinance, Water and Sewer Budget Ordinance,
Capital Improvement Fund Ordinances and amendments Project.is hereby referred to as a part of these
minutes, and a copy is on file in the Town Clerk’s office for public viewing. ****

             B. Public Hearing & Decision - Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
Town Manager Melody Shuler presented the proposed Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance to the
Town Council. She explained that FEMA has issued updated Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and a
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Rockingham County, effective June 10, 2026. To maintain the Town's
eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), the Town is required to adopt updated
floodplain management regulations that comply with state and federal requirements before the effective
date. Failure to adopt the ordinance could result in suspension from the NFIP and the loss of access to
federally backed flood insurance for property owners.


Following the required public hearing and receipt of public comment, Council adopted the Flood
Damage Prevention Ordinance on second reading as presented. Staff will submit the adopted ordinance
and supporting documentation to the North Carolina Division of Emergency Management and FEMA
prior to the June 10, 2026 effective date.

Mayor Lake opened the public hearing at 6:37 pm
No questions or comments from the public.
Mayor Lake opened the public hearing at 6:40 pm

Motion by Councilmember Barnes, seconded by Councilmember Miller, to adopt the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance and Second Reading as presented.
Ayes: Councilmembers Barnes, Cardwell, Goard, Miller, and Shelton
Nays: None
Motion carried unanimously


             C. Public Hearing & Decision - Text Amendments for Data Processing and Solar
                  Energy Facilities
Lucy Lewis presented the proposed Text Amendment TA-002-2026 (Data Processing Facilities) and
Text Amendment TA-003-2026 (Solar Energy Facilities). She explained that the Town's current Zoning
Ordinance does not contain specific regulations for data processing facilities, including data centers,
artificial intelligence processing facilities, and cryptocurrency mining operations, nor does it include
comprehensive standards for medium-scale and utility-scale solar energy facilities.
Ms. Lewis explained that the proposed text amendments establish definitions and development standards
related to location, buffering, infrastructure capacity, environmental impacts, compatibility with
surrounding land uses, and long-term site management. The amendments would require these uses to be
reviewed through the Special Use Permit process, providing a framework for evaluating future proposals
while protecting public infrastructure, community character, and adjacent properties.
Ms. Lewis stated that the Planning Board reviewed the proposed amendments and unanimously
recommended approval. Following the public hearing and receipt of public comments, Council approved
Text Amendment TA-002-2026 (Data Processing Facilities) and Text Amendment TA-003-2026 (Solar
Energy Facilities), including the associated Reasonableness and Consistency Statements, as

Mayor Lake opened the public hearing at 6:47 pm
Lucy Lewis presented the proposed text amendments and, as part of her presentation, shared an email
submitted by John Rhodes. At Mr. Rhodes' request, Ms. Lewis read the email into the record for
Council's consideration during the public hearing.

Cindi Johnson thanked and appreciated the steps Council had taken.

John Rhodes emailed: Members of the Mayodan Town Council and Town Manager, My name
is John Rhodes, and I am the owner of a 60-acre parcel located on top of Mayodan Mountain.
As a property owner directly impacted by this zoning amendment, I respectfully request that this
correspondence be read aloud into the official record during the public hearing portion of the June 8
meeting, or at minimum, that its core tenets be summarized for the public record.
 I am writing to formally submit my public comments regarding Text Amendment #TA-002-2026,
which establishes zoning and development standards for data centers. I strongly support the Council’s
use of its statutory authority under North Carolina General Statutes Chapter 160D to enact a temporary
moratorium and draft these regulations. As the massive 1-million-square-foot facility under construction


just across the town line in Madison demonstrates, our rural communities, mountain topography, and
natural resources face unprecedented risks. To ensure Mayodan's ordinance is legally ironclad and fully
protective of its citizens, I ask that the council strengthen the current text in three critical areas before
adoption:
1. Topographical Noise Mitigation (N.C. Constitution, Article I, Section 19)Under the North Carolina
Constitution, citizens have a fundamental right to the protection of their property values and the peaceful
enjoyment of their land. Low-frequency industrial noise from data center cooling infrastructure travels
upward, transforming mountain ridges into acoustic amphitheaters. The draft ordinance must move
beyond vague mitigation language and mandate a strict, measurable 45-decibel ambient noise cap at the
property line of any residential zone, requiring fully enclosed sound-attenuation structures.
2. Watershed and Ground Water Protections (N.C. Groundwater Reasonable Use Doctrine) My property
features a large natural creek, and like many rural landowners on the mountain, I rely entirely on shared
underground aquifers for well water. High-intensity data centers consume millions of gallons of water
daily. Under North Carolina common law, the Reasonable Use Doctrine protects landowners from
groundwater depletion that impairs adjacent properties. The ordinance should require mandatory,
independent Hydrogeologic Impact Studies before any special-use permit is granted to guarantee local
wells and mountain streams are not drained or degraded.
3. Public Utility and Grid Protections (Federal Power Act / Consumer Protection) The Federal Power
Act protects consumers from unjust and unreasonable utility rates. Massive tech infrastructure
frequently triggers localized grid upgrades and substations, the costs of which are often passed down to
residential taxpayers. The council should amend the text to require developers to submit legally binding
utility agreements proving they are funding 100% of grid infrastructure upgrades, ensuring Mayodan
families do not subsidize corporate utility bills through rate hikes.
By codifying these specific, measurable standards into Text Amendment #TA-002-2026, Mayodan will
establish a legally enforceable framework that protects taxpayers and rural property owners alike. I
request that this letter be distributed to all council members and entered into the official public record
for the June 8, 2026, hearing.
Thank you for your leadership and your dedication to protecting Mayodan Mountain.

Cindy Johnson expressed her appreciation to the Town and staff for their work in developing the
proposed ordinance amendments. She asked that any future proposal for a solar energy facility or data
processing facility continue to require a public hearing before receiving approval. Staff confirmed that
both uses would be subject to the Special Use Permit process, which includes review by the Planning
Board, a public hearing, and final approval by the Town Council. Ms. Johnson also encouraged the
Town to carefully consider the potential impacts of future data processing facilities on the Town's
wastewater system, referencing concerns associated with a similar facility in Madison.

Keith Martin asked whether the proposed solar energy regulations would address an existing solar
installation on Ayersville Road, noting that it did not appear to fit within the definitions presented in the
proposed ordinance. He also inquired whether the Town had resolved previous concerns regarding that
facility, specifically referencing an alleged setback issue in which the installation was reportedly not
located the required 50 feet from the property line. He asked for clarification on how the proposed
regulations would apply to similar situations in the future. Mr. Martin concluded by stating that he
hoped the Town could reach a reasonable compromise in addressing these matters.

Town Manager Shuler responded that the existing solar installation is currently in violation because the
property owner did not obtain the required zoning permit. She stated that the Town is taking appropriate
enforcement action to address the violation. Town Manager Shuler further explained that the proposed
text amendment would not apply to that particular installation because it qualifies under existing
renewable energy laws and, therefore, is not subject to the provisions of the proposed ordinance. She


added that, because the installation was constructed without the required zoning permit, the property
owner will be required to remove it to achieve compliance with the Town's zoning regulations.

Joni Carter asked whether the email would be incorporated into the proposed ordinance.
Staff responded that the information contained in the email could be considered during
the review process and that the email could also be included as an attachment to the
ordinance or the meeting record, if appropriate.

Town Manager Shuler clarified that the email submitted would not result in
changes to the proposed text amendment at this time. She explained that the ordinance
language as presented would remain unchanged. However, staff would review the
information provided to determine whether additional action is warranted and whether a
future text amendment should be considered.

Mayor Lake closed the public hearing at 6:51 pm

Motion by Councilmember Barnes, seconded by Councilmember Goard, to
approve approval of Text Amendment TA-002-2026 (Data Processing Facilities) and
Text Amendment TA-003-2026 (Solar Energy Facilities), including the associated
Reasonableness and Consistency Statements as presented.
Ayes: Councilmembers Barnes, Cardwell, Goard, Miller and Shelton
Nays:
Motion carried unanimously

    E. Congratulating the Dalton McMichael High School Phoenix Softball Coaches
    and Team on Their 2026 NCHSAA 3A State Championship Runner-Up Finish
Mayor Dwight Lake welcomed the Dalton McMichael High School Phoenix Softball coaches and team
to the meeting and congratulated them on their outstanding 2026 NCHSAA 3A State Championship
Runner-Up finish. Mayor Lake read the Town's resolution recognizing the team's accomplishments and
then presented the resolution to the coaches and team. Council expressed its appreciation for the
dedication, hard work, and success of the players and coaching staff and congratulated them on an
exceptional season.

           D. Public Hearing & Decision – Special Use Application
for Curb, Gutter, and Sidewalk Alternatives for N 7th Avenue ~ CONTINUED
Town Manager Shuler explained that this agenda item was a continuation of the discussion from the
previous Council meeting. At that meeting, Council requested that the Technical Review Committee
(TRC) evaluate the proposed development, identify the anticipated cost of widening North Seventh
Avenue from Jackson Street to the end of the road, and review the potential stormwater impacts
associated with the project.

Town Manager Shuler reported that the TRC, consisting of the Rockingham County Fire Marshal, the
Mayodan Fire Chief, the Public Works Director, and the Rockingham County Senior Planner, had
completed its review and recommended several revised conditions. These conditions superseded those
previously recommended by the Planning Board and included:

   •   A final roadway design providing a minimum 20-foot-wide access for emergency vehicles in
       compliance with applicable fire codes.
   •   A drainage plan prepared by a licensed engineer demonstrating no adverse stormwater impacts,
       subject to TRC approval.


   •   A 30-foot undisturbed stream buffer along the unnamed tributary to the Mayo River.
   •   A recorded 40-foot by 80-foot cemetery easement around the identified headstones, including a
       10-foot access easement.
   •   Review and approval of all utility infrastructure and connections by the Town prior to final plat
       approval.
   •   Approval of all required erosion and sedimentation control permits before land-disturbing
       activities begin.

Town Manager Shuler stated that the applicant had agreed in writing to these conditions. She also noted
that the drainage plan remains outstanding and would be reviewed by the TRC once submitted.

She explained that staff had obtained an estimate for widening North Seventh Avenue; however, the
project would involve additional costs related to right-of-way acquisition, utility relocation, and
engineering. Staff recommended having the Town's engineer prepare a comprehensive cost estimate,
which could take approximately 30 days.

Town Manager Shuler further reported that the applicant did not agree to proposed conditions requiring
an emergency and construction access to Utility Street or a financial contribution toward widening North
Seventh Avenue, citing excessive costs and environmental impacts. She noted that any roadway
improvements and stormwater requirements would ultimately be subject to review and approval by the
North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT). She also advised that the Fire Marshal had
recommended widening the proposed roadway to 22–24 feet to better accommodate emergency
vehicles; however, the applicant's plan continued to propose a 20-foot-wide roadway.

Town Manager Shuler concluded by presenting staff's recommendation, incorporating the revised TRC
conditions, and invited questions from the Council before proceeding with further discussion.

Councilmember Shelton asked that photographs he had previously provided be displayed for the Council
as part of the discussion. Using the photographs, he explained that they illustrated examples of ribbon
roads discussed at earlier meetings, particularly roads with paved surfaces but open drainage ditches. He
stated that his primary concern was stormwater drainage and shared photographs of drainage conditions
along several ribbon roads throughout Town. Councilmember Shelton noted that many of the drainage
improvements appeared to have been installed after development occurred, with homeowners and, in
some instances, the Town attempting to address drainage issues over time. He emphasized that his goal
was to avoid creating similar problems with future developments by ensuring that drainage is properly
planned and designed from the outset, rather than relying on piecemeal improvements after construction.

Mayor Dwight Lake announced that the public hearing was a quasi-judicial hearing and explained that
anyone wishing to provide testimony would need to be sworn in before speaking. He invited all
individuals who intended to speak during the public hearing to come forward to be administered the oath
by Town Clerk Sarah Hopper prior to the hearing proceeding.

Mayor Lake opened the public hearing at 7:07 p.m.

Town Clerk Sarah Hopper swore in the individuals who requested to provide testimony during the
quasi-judicial public hearing. Those sworn in were Connie Fox, Vickie Shelton, Bryant Garner, Mike
Simpson, Robert Peterson, Town Manager Melody Shuler, and Ken Mackovic, Jr.


Connie Fox stated that she had shared her concerns during the previous public hearing
And hoped the Council understood the issues she had raised. She noted that she had
previously offered to walk Council members through the drainage concerns on her
property but was unsure whether anyone had visited the site since the last meeting. Ms.
Fox asked whether there was a timeline or a plan in place to address the drainage issues
associated with the proposed development. She stated that, based on the discussion, she
assumed a plan would be developed but wanted clarification. Ms. Fox also reiterated her
concerns regarding the proposed entrance and exit, particularly emergency access. She
asked whether, if the development were approved, those concerns had been resolved or if
they would continue to be addressed as part of the project.

Councilmember Doug Cardwell noted that no other development had been required to
provide more than one entrance or exit and expressed his opinion that this development
should be evaluated under the same standards.

Councilmember Shelton stated that River's Edge has two entrances.

Ms. Fox stated that her primary problem was the location of the proposed roadway.
While she understood the discussion regarding widening North Seventh Avenue, she
Believed the circumstances differed from other developments, such as River's Edge,
because that area has more open space. She expressed concern that the proposed
development site presents unique challenges due to its location and reiterated her
concerns regarding the roadway layout, access, and the potential impact on the
surrounding area.

Town Manager Melody Shuler clarified that the proposed emergency access and
construction entrance are not included in the current proposal.

Ms. Fox stated that she wanted to clarify that the proposed emergency access was no
longer included in the project. She then asked how the drainage issues would be
addressed if the development were approved. Ms. Fox explained that she had not fully
described all of the drainage problems affecting her property during the previous public
hearing and noted that some of those issues stemmed from improvements made to
Wilkins Street. She acknowledged that the roadway widening alone would not resolve
her concerns and asked what plans were in place to address existing and future drainage
impacts associated with the proposed development.

Town Manager Melody Shuler acknowledged that the Town recognizes there are existing
issues with the width of North Seventh Avenue. She stated that staff had begun
preliminary work over the past month to evaluate what would be required to widen the
roadway and address the associated drainage concerns. Ms. Shuler explained that the next
step would be to involve the Town's engineer to develop recommendations and cost
estimates. She informed Council that she and Public Works Director Joey Hudy were
scheduled to meet with the Town's engineer the following day to review the roadway and
drainage issues. Ms. Shuler also noted that she and Mayor Dwight Lake had visited Ms.
Fox's property to better assess the existing drainage concerns firsthand.

Ms. Fox expressed her appreciation for them coming. She stated that she understood not
all of her existing drainage issues would be resolved through the proposed development,
noting that some of the problems resulted from previous work completed on Wilkins


Street. She explained that the project was never fully completed after the contractor left,
and the drainage issues have worsened over time. Ms. Fox stated that this is why she is
raising her concerns early in the process. She expressed her hope that the Town would
address the drainage issues associated with North Seventh Avenue before development
occurs to help prevent similar issues in the future.

Vickie Shelton I just have a couple of comments. First of all, I think last meeting it seemed like that
everybody was gung ho, we've got to do this, we need to do this, and now we have to take a step back,
and we're not going to do these things that some people felt like, you know, they were heard, and it was
going to happen if we don't open up another access. It's not just the problem of, I guess, getting in and
out, or more traffic on seven, you're going to have. Emergency vehicles, someone's going to get stuck up
there. We get stuck up there now already. Also, it's 35 miles per hour up there, or in the town of
Manhattan, which is, if you've got children, that's too fast in the town. The town limits should be 20, it's
20 on Main Street, I believe, and it's 35 on the side streets. That's crazy. But anyway, that would help, or
a speed bump, but the longer, not the short, would help as well. But they need access, and the drainage
Bucks around town all the time; he sees it, he's had to do his own, so we do need to be a little more
proactive, and not just we want the revenue, we want the people to come in, but in turn we have to step
up to the plate and make it right up front.

Bryant Garner stated that, in the future, the Town should consider holding a public
hearing before deciding to approve a large residential development on a small road that is
not designed to handle significant traffic. He noted that traffic on North Seventh Avenue
already increases whenever the pool opens up, and it really gets heavy during those
periods. He expressed concern that adding approximately 23 to 24 new homes would
significantly increase traffic and change a lot of things in that area. He suggested that the
Town consider sharing in the cost of providing an additional access from Utility Street
rather than requiring the developer to bear the entire expense, noting that the
development would generate additional tax revenue for the Town of $92 million in tax
revenue.
Mr. Garner stated you know, house is going to be about $400,000 space, which is a lot
more expensive than most of the houses we have in town, but it's something we really
need to look at. I wish y'all would look at it now, or not putting an emergency entrance
and exit in there, putting an entrance and exit in with whatever curbs, and you know, not
curb, but speed bumps to slow everybody down, so they're not using it for entrance and
exits coming in town and leaving town, but that's basically it for me. Anything y'all can
do, you much appreciate it, because we got a lot of houses on Seventh Avenue that are
next to the road, and if you go in and widen it, you're going to be up against the houses.

Mike Simpson, I am deeply concerned about the traffic; it's going to be on Seventh
Avenue. Yeah, it would be nice to. I love to see the sleeve widened a couple anyway.
That needs to be done anyway, because it's really too narrow already for the amount of
traffic we have there, but I've I looked, I walked that property a couple of weeks ago. I
walked the whole perimeter, and I'm very much aware that as you get close to Utility
Street, there's a significant drop off there, and yeah, it wouldn't be a piece of cake to go in
there and put another entrance, if right away is a problem. The town owns all the land
where the concerns with right-away exist, so why is that a problem? If there's a problem,
because the water coming into the treatment plant comes under that, I mean, it comes
under 220, so what's the difference of having another road there for it to come over to
of? That's to me, that is, that's an issue that could be dealt with, and that could be
resolved. It won't be inexpensive, but if you can't do it, then I don't think you need to


allow this to happen. You owe it. The people who live on Seventh to treat us better than
that when there is a solution to the problem.

Robert Peterson, So first question is, how many houses exactly for different numbers?
2424 My assumption is from listening to you is the applicant has not wanted to work with
the town at all, as far as anything, right? They are not willing to.

Town Manager Shuler stated they have agreed to 6 out of 11 conditions,

Mr. Peterson stated that, but no money, so far.

Town Manager Shuler stated yes, that is correct.

Mr. Peterson stated, really, I really think that he is going to make enough money up out
Of it and everything else that he should work with the town as far as that goes, because
you're going to have to do something with seven, and that's going to cost a lot of money
and a lot of hassle because you're going to have to buy a lot of land from different people
and everything else; it's not just widened into the road, and I really think that he should
have to fork over some money if he wants to work. He wants to be here. He should work
with the town. Thank you.

Ken Mackovic, Jr. stated that he represented the company that submitted the application requesting the
waiver. He began by stating that he felt the applicant had been very cooperative and open throughout the
process, noting that they had exchanged emails with Town Manager Melody Shuler, attended meetings,
and agreed to several requested conditions. However, he explained that there are certain requests that
become cost-prohibitive and, in his opinion, should not be the sole responsibility of a private developer
when the project would also provide a benefit to the community.

Mr. Mackovic stated that the proposed development would create an estimated $10 million addition to
the Town's tax base, which he believes would continue to grow over time. He acknowledged the
concerns expressed regarding North Seventh Avenue but stated that, in his opinion, those issues are
existing Town issues that should have been addressed regardless of this development. He further stated
that the property owner's desire to sell the property for residential development should not be hindered
by conditions unrelated to the development itself.

Mr. Mackovic explained that his engineer reviewed the request for a secondary access to Utility Street
and identified several concerns. He stated that the available road frontage on Utility Street is
insufficient, additional property acquisition would likely be required, and construction of a roadway
would impact the stream along the southwest property line. He noted that crossing the stream would
likely require piping the stream and obtaining permits from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, a process
that could take four to six months. He added that there is no guarantee the Corps would determine that
such impacts are warranted.

Mr. Mackovic further stated that, based on his engineer's experience, many municipalities do not require
a secondary access until subdivisions exceed 50 to 100 lots, while some require it for developments
exceeding 30 lots. He noted that this proposed subdivision contains fewer than 30 lots and referenced
several larger subdivisions he has worked on that were served by only one entrance and exit.


He also pointed out that one of the proposed Technical Review Committee conditions required
preservation of the stream buffer, while another recommendation suggested creating an access across the
stream. In his opinion, those recommendations conflicted with one another.

Regarding drainage, Mr. Mackovic stated that the proposed roadway width of 20 feet is the standard
residential street width. He explained that all drainage and stormwater management plans must be
reviewed and approved by the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ), noting that
the agency has stringent requirements. He stated that detailed engineering plans addressing stormwater
runoff, erosion control, drainage, and environmental impacts must be completed before any land-
disturbing activity can begin.

Mr. Mackovic stated that the property currently has erosion issues resulting from previous logging
activities and that those conditions exist prior to the proposed development. He explained that he had
met with Mrs. Cook regarding concerns about her driveway and observed that existing runoff is
occurring because there is currently no erosion control in place on the property. He emphasized that the
development would be required to comply with all applicable Town and State regulations before
construction could begin.

He stated that the applicant has agreed to the proposed stream buffer, cemetery easement, utility
infrastructure review, and erosion and sedimentation control requirements. He also expressed support for
reducing the speed limit within the Town's residential core to 25 miles per hour, stating that he believes
it would improve safety.

Regarding participation in roadway improvement costs, Mr. Mackovic stated that the developer is
already making a substantial investment by installing water and sewer infrastructure throughout the
subdivision and constructing roads that meet North Carolina Department of Transportation standards.
He expressed his opinion that improvements to existing Town-maintained roads should not become the
developer's financial responsibility and questioned how a shared-cost arrangement could fairly be
determined.

In closing, Mr. Mackovic stated that the applicant is simply trying to complete a quality residential
development while complying with all applicable Town and State requirements. He acknowledged the
concerns regarding North Seventh Avenue but reiterated his belief that those roadway issues are pre-
existing conditions that should be addressed regardless of whether the proposed subdivision is approved.
He also stated that, based on his engineer's review, a secondary emergency access may not be warranted
and that pursuing such an access could require significant additional time and expense. Mr. Mackovic
concluded by stating that he would be happy to answer any questions from the Council.

Councilmember Cardwell asked if the electrical and cable, all infrastructure going to be on the ground?

Mr. Mackovic stated it would.

Mr. Mackovic stated he wanted to mention one other thing. There were some pictures shown. I'm not
sure where they originated, you know, some of that. I don't know if those were in public rights-of-way
or just private sideline ditches that people have done work to, so I don't think that those are fair
depictions of where this goes with no curb and gutter or using open ditch lines.

Councilmember Shelton stated those were pictures from properties that started off with ditches that
didn't work for the homeowners that had to pipe the ditch in to feel like they were controlling the water


better than the ditch did. They're on every ribbon road that we have in town, dead in roads, they're on
connecting roads, they're on Road Street, they're on Virginia Street, they're on Madison Street, and it's
been a problem with the homeowner fighting the town on who controls that water and who is
responsible for the water flow, when the town says that it's the property owner and the property owner
says that it's the town, and it's a hindsight thought when nobody was considering judging on the front
end, they were just worried about the tax revenue, the tax base that they were adding to, and then they
had to go back and fix it.

Mr. Mackovic asked how old those houses were that he was referring to.

Councilmember Shelton stated some of them are less than five years old, some of them are probably 100
years.

Mr. Mackovic stated I've never seen them that shallow he stated that's less than five years old. Usually,
DOT does a pretty good job of making sure that those ditch lines, you know, are good and flowing.

Councilmember Shelton stated, we discussed that the DOT really doesn't show up and maintain these;
that's the problem.

Vickie Shelton stated that this was everyone's concern. She commented that although NCDOT and DEQ
have responsibilities for roadway and drainage issues, residents do not always see those issues
addressed. She noted that the Town-maintained side streets are generally well maintained, while Main
Street, which is maintained by NCDOT, does not receive the same level of maintenance.

Mr. Mackovic stated a 50-foot right of way may have 20 feet of pavement, but it extends another 15 feet
off each side of that pavement, which includes the back slope of that ditch, so it is a DOT matter.

Town Attorney Eugene Russell clarified that the North Carolina Department of Transportation
(NCDOT) is responsible for maintaining only certain streets within the Town, primarily the main roads.
He explained that the Town is responsible for maintaining all other Town streets and may use Powell
Bill funds for those improvements. He noted that roads maintained by the Town are not the
responsibility of NCDOT.

Councilmember Shelton stated that his concern was that when one property owner addresses a drainage
issue, it can sometimes shift or worsen the problem for an adjacent property owner. He emphasized the
importance of having a comprehensive drainage plan in place before development occurs, rather than
relying on individual property owners to resolve issues after the fact. He asked whether modifications to
private property, such as drainage improvements or retaining structures, require Town permits.
Councilmember Shelton noted that, in some cases, the Town has assisted with drainage improvements,
while in others residents have spent tens of thousands of dollars on ditching because the Town did not
address the drainage issues and there was no forethought given to curbing and guttering when the areas
were originally developed. He reiterated that his goal is for future developments to include proper
planning for drainage from the outset to avoid similar problems in the future.

Councilmember Shelton asked how many linear feet of curbing would be in the development and the
cost that would be associated with the development?

Mr. Mackovic stated no, he would need to look at it.


Councilmember Goard asked about the proposed drainage plan and the requirement that it be prepared
by a licensed engineer demonstrating that the proposed open-ditch system is adequate to manage
stormwater runoff. She questioned what would happen if the engineer determined that the proposed
open-ditch system was not adequate and instead recommended the installation of a culvert system or
curb and gutter. Councilmember Goard asked how those recommendations would be addressed if they
differed from the proposed plan.

Mr. Mackovic said that it is prepared by them, but then it's approved by DEQ, that's North Carolina
Department of Environmental Quality.

Councilmember Goard asked if it has been approved. What happens if it comes back and says that that
isn't adequate?

Mr. Mackovic stated that it hadn’t been approved; he stated that it would have to be changed.

Councilmember Goard asked whether the project would need to be redesigned if the licensed engineer
determined that the proposed open-ditch drainage system was inadequate and instead recommended
installing culverts or curb and gutter. She questioned whether that would cause a backout of the project?

Mr. Mackovic stated absolutely.

Town Clerk Sarah Hopper swore in the individuals who requested to provide testimony during the
quasi-judicial public hearing. Those sworn in were Jerri Atkins and Ann Garner.

Jerry Atkins lives at 701 Roach, it's the corner of Seven Roach Street. There are some issues going on
that would bring concern to me, not just the traffic. I don't mind traffic, I live on the corner of two busy
streets, so I'm used to seeing, especially in the summer, you know, with the kids and the golf carts and
the bikes and everything going up and down the roads. What concerns me most, honestly, is the drainage
issue. I already have quite the issues in my yard. My back's up against, I guess, it's a creek. Creek or
stream, not sure what it's called. Part of that yard has already fallen into the creek several times. When
the water comes up, it does come up in the yard; that culvert, or whatever that part is that runs under the
road at the end of the hill, past the flashing light part of it, the walls have caved in. They're lying in the
creek, so if they expand that, it concerns me already. We have an issue. There are drains in my yard that
were placed in there years ago, and it's more like grates, and they're terra cotta piping; that's how old it
is. We have drains on both sides of the yard; the ones in the front really kind of don't even exist. The
neighbors across the street have filled their drain ditches in, and that's become a problem, because now
all the water from their yard across the street is going into my yard, into the front of my house, going
down the sides; erosion is a complete chaos. So I'm thinking, you know, if we.. my concern is that if we
continue to expand the yard, you know, this road into my yard. I also have my turn-off valve from my
water supply to the house that is actually like probably less than three feet from the road. That's another
concern that bothers me. I just don't know. I guess what I'm trying to find out is where are we going with
the drain issues that we already have? If we're widening the road, we're just going to be creating more
issues. I need some kind of answers, or I feel like, and not that I'm demanding anything, but I would like
to have answers. What is the proposition for as far as getting the water where it needs to go? Are we
building a new culvert? Are we expanding it? I mean, the neighbor right behind me, going up the hill,
he's actually poured concrete on part of his property just to try and keep the erosion; part of his yard is
hollowed in, as well as not, so I'm thinking, you know, it's, it's going to be quite the task to widen that
road. Other people have already said, you know, the neighbor across from me, I mean, if they go six
foot, it's going to be less than a foot from their house, and that's, and I know it may seem like we're


stepping over the line, but when it comes to your property, you would do the same, and I would expect
no less, but my great concern really is not all of the traffic, I think an easy solution would be open in
Utility Street. I don't know the ins and outs. I'm gonna be honest with you, I really don't. I know there's a
lot involved. This gentleman already told us there's a creek. I don't know all the ins and outs of piping
that creek, you know, protection of the water supply. I'm sure all that plays into whatever goes into this
new development. I'm not against new developments. I think that if we stay inside of a box, that's where
we're going to stay. We need to think outside the box and grow and have a vision, and I think you people
have that. I think you have a vision for this community and a heart for it, but there needs to be some
guidelines in place to protect those who have been here most of their lives. I have not been here all my
life, but I've been here over 25 years, and this is my home. I love it. I love these people. I love this
community. I choose to live here.

I commute to Greensboro every day. Because I love Mayodan but I also want to feel like that I'm not
being taken advantage of because a new community is coming in, I want everything to be done properly,
and I want the rights of those people who are homeowners in this community, their thoughts, their yards,
their feelings, their money that they've invested their hard working lives into to be taken seriously,
especially with the erosion and the streets, and you know it may not affect me as much, because I have a
corner lot and I have some, some, a little bit of play, but the people across the street from me, that road
is going to be right up against their house that bothers me a great deal. There is an elderly couple that
may not have the opportunity to move again, but I just hope y'all are taking it seriously. Mayodan is
special because of the smallness and the community people who care about each other, and I feel like we
don't let the growth of the community block out what's really important, and that's people. I'm hoping
that everybody's listening, and if we don't take care of the erosion problem, the houses that exist now are
not going to be here much longer. I've had to place a lot of money in pipes, and all kinds of things to
divert the water off of my property, and I'm just concerned again that this is just going to be another
thing that I have to deal with, as far as when they widen the road, is it going to increase more water
coming down my road into my yard.

Ann Garner stated I’m going to be the odd man out, because I do agree that this development has got
more attention than the people that live in this town. If these roads have been in such disrepair for all the
years that you guys have lived here, and I know you're just on the board for so many years, but all the
people prior to you, why has nobody addressed our streets, the ribbon roads? Okay, people are doing
their own drainage. Why? Because nobody complained. I mean, you know, I think some of that money
needs to go into this town instead of trying to bring people in here that, who knows, in 510, years, that's
gonna be a problem too. But I think you got to take care of the people that have lived here their whole
life, and I live on the street, and it's 17 feet wide in front of my house, so obviously if there's some kind
of ordinance that says my street needs to be 22, why is that not already been addressed? You've got to
watch this big company come in to bring a housing development to issue to address any of it, and so you
know, my question is, what about the people that have been here the whole time, the ribbon roads that
are in such terrible.. is it because the state pays for the main roads and we're responsible for the rest? If
you put guttering in that housing development, do we have to pay for that when he comes down Seventh
Avenue in front of our house, because it's my understanding when you put gutter in front of houses, the
citizens have to pay, and we didn't agree to that, you know. So I'm just saying, I think y'all need to take a
step back and look at the people that live here, maybe address fixing the roads they live on and the
drainage they need fixed, instead of putting so much emphasis on this, and I agree with this gentleman,
it's not his fault that that street is like it is, it's this town's fault, and it should have already been fixed. A
lot of the streets should have, because you know, it's a golf cart community; you ride around, you hit a
hole, and you've out blocked the government. I'm just saying that's all.

Mayor Lake closed the public hearing at 7:50 pm


Councilmember Miller stated, just as a point of emphasis, I know a lot of y'all touched on infrastructure,
so this council may. Last fall we came up to this strategic priorities. It was on the budget slides.
Infrastructure is one of our top priorities, and it will take time, and I do agree that we need to address our
current issues and not allow any compounding of those issues. So, with infrastructure, I do want to make
the note that infrastructure is a top priority of this council. I do agree with a lot of your sentiment on the
water runoff issues that we currently have, and regardless of how this vote goes, infrastructure will be a
top priority after this, and I'm sure seventh will be a point of emphasis to look at.

Councilmember Cardwell stated that everyone wants to see infrastructure improvements, but few want
to see property taxes increase. He commented that funding infrastructure improvements generally comes
either through new development that expands the tax base or through increased tax revenues. He noted
that the Town has limited financial funds. He went on to say anytime we get a federal grant, it's for a
specific thing. If we get a grant, it's for a specific part, we can't just take a grant spent for whatever we
want to, and we're trying to every melody spends 50% of her time trying to chase federal grants, state
grants, county grants, any free money, she's done a wonderful job of that, but there's just not so much
out there available, and when it is available, like I said, it's for a specific thing, like sidewalks or water
line repair, or ADA accessible ramps, so that's not, not, not to be a short answer, but that's the way it
goes. Councilmember Cardwell stated that, during his lifetime, streets in Mayodan that were improved
with curb and gutter were funded through a partnership between the Town and the affected property
owners. He explained that the process required a petition signed by at least 51% of the property owners,
after which the cost of the improvements was shared equally between the property owners and the
Town. Councilmember Cardwell noted that the Town's streets were not originally constructed with curb
and gutter by either the Town or the State but were added later through this cooperative improvement
process.

Councilmember Miller stated that he appreciated the applicant's interest in investing in the Town of
Mayodan and welcomed the proposed development. However, he expressed concern that the applicant
entered into a contract to purchase the property knowing the Town's existing ordinances and was now
requesting that the Town reduce its development standards. He stated that, in his opinion, developers
should understand and comply with the Town's ordinances before purchasing property rather than asking
the Town to modify its standards afterward. Councilmember Miller further noted that the Council must
base its decision on the required findings of fact and the evidence presented during the quasi-judicial
hearing.

Councilmember Miller stated that, at the previous meeting, Council approved a text amendment
allowing alternatives to traditional curb and gutter, provided those alternatives are determined to be "just
as good or better." He stated that he was not yet convinced that a grass-lined open-ditch system would
provide the same level of stormwater management as curb and gutter. He noted that many of the Town's
older ribbon roads, while not originally constructed with curb and gutter, have since required some type
of guttering or drainage improvements, whether completed by the Town or by individual property
owners.

Councilmember Miller stated that he was open to considering alternatives to curb and gutter but wanted
to ensure that any approved design would adequately manage stormwater and avoid creating future
drainage problems for residents along North Seventh Avenue. He also clarified that the proposed
residential development is permitted by right under the property's current zoning. He explained that the
Town cannot prohibit the development itself or require a secondary access to Utility Street, but because
the applicant is requesting relief from the curb-and-gutter standards, the Council has the authority to
consider and act on that specific request.


Councilmember Shelton stated that staff had previously obtained an estimate for installing curb and
gutter along North Seventh Avenue from Jackson Street to the end of the road, approximately 3,600
linear feet, at an estimated cost of $150,000. Based on that estimate, he calculated that installing curb
and gutter within the proposed development would cost approximately $120,000. He commented that, in
his opinion, the additional cost per home would be relatively small and would provide permanent curb
and gutter infrastructure rather than requiring future drainage improvements after development.
Councilmember Shelton also asked about the capacity of the Town's existing water and sewer system,
questioning whether continued residential growth would require additional infrastructure improvements
in the future.

Councilmember Goard asked whether the Town planned to address improvements to North Seventh
Avenue regardless of the proposed development. Town Manager Shuler responded that the roadway
improvements would be addressed and that the remaining infrastructure needs would continue to be
evaluated and prioritized through the Town's Capital Improvement Program (CIP). Councilmember
Goard stated that, with that understanding, she was in favor of the proposal.

Motion by Councilmember Cardwell, seconded by Councilmember Barnes, to approve
Motion to approve Special Use Permit SUP-002-2026 with the recommended conditions, based on an
affirmative determination of the required findings of fact.
Ayes: Councilmembers Barnes, Cardwell, and Goard
Nays: Councilmembers Miller and Shelton
Motion carried 3-2

Councilmember Miller asked whether the Town could explore options for helping fund a secondary
entrance from Utility Street. He noted that the Town owns the right-of-way in that area and suggested
evaluating whether it could be expanded to accommodate an additional access. Councilmember Miller
requested that staff work with the developer to prepare a cost analysis identifying what it would cost the
Town to construct the necessary infrastructure, rather than requiring the developer to bear the full
expense. He further asked that the option of modifying the development plan to include a secondary
means of access be explored. Councilmember Miller asked the applicant, Ken Mackovic, Jr., whether
the development team would be willing to consider modifying the subdivision plan to include a
secondary access from Utility Street if the Town explored funding the necessary infrastructure
improvements. He clarified that he was not asking the developer to pay for the additional access but was
asking whether the developer would be open to altering the plans should the Town determine that the
project was feasible. Councilmember Miller stated that he would like the Town to explore the option and
evaluate its potential cost before making any future decisions.

Ken Mackovic, Jr. responded, "Absolutely."

Mayor Lake thanked Mr. Mackovic, the citizens who attended, and everyone who participated in the
public hearing. He stated that the Council had taken the matter very seriously and had carefully
considered all of the comments and concerns presented. Mayor Lake noted that the discussion identified
issues the Town would continue to address in the coming months and years and expressed his
appreciation to everyone for their patience and participation.

NEW BUSINESS:
    A. Rockingham County Comprehensive Transportation Plan
Emily Stupka of the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) introduced the members of
the project team present for the meeting. She introduced Toya Smith, Division 7 Corridor Development
Engineer; Devin Jones, who assisted with development of the Comprehensive Transportation Plan; Amy


Bailey, Project Manager and Manager of the Western Piedmont Planning Group for NCDOT; and Dawn
Bailier, Coordinator for the Piedmont Triad Rural Planning Organization (PTRPO).

Ms. Stupka explained that the purpose of the presentation was to provide an overview of the
Rockingham County Comprehensive Transportation Plan. She stated that the presentation would include
an explanation of the Comprehensive Transportation Plan process, the project's timeline, transportation
recommendations specific to the Town of Mayodan, and a request for Council to consider adopting the
plan. She then turned the presentation over to Devin Jones to begin the overview.

Following the presentation and discussion, Council approved the Resolution Adopting the Rockingham
County Comprehensive Transportation Plan for the Town of Mayodan, supporting its submission to the
North Carolina Department of Transportation for final adoption.

Motion by Councilmember Miller, seconded by Councilmember Shelton, to approve the Resolution
Adopting the Rockingham County Comprehensive Transportation Plan for the Town of Mayodan,
supporting its submission to the North Carolina Department of Transportation for final adoption.
Ayes: Councilmembers Barnes, Cardwell, Goard, Miller, and Shelton
Nays: None
Motion carried unanimously

Discussion of Traffic Safety Measures on North Seventh Avenue
Following the discussion of the North Seventh Avenue development, Mayor Lake noted that, although
the matter was not listed on the agenda, he believed it was appropriate to address traffic safety concerns
in the area. He stated that with the community pool open and increased seasonal traffic expected,
additional traffic control measures should be considered immediately. Mayor Lake recommended
installing a three-way stop at the intersection of North Seventh Avenue and Wilkins Street, and four-way
stop signs at the intersections of North Seventh Avenue and Roach Street, Jackson Street and 10th
Avenue, and Virginia and 11th Avenue. He stated that these improvements would help slow traffic in the
area and asked the Council to consider moving forward with the installation, noting that stop signs
would be a relatively inexpensive traffic safety improvement.
Motion by Councilmember Shelton, seconded by Councilmember Miller, approved N 7th/Wilkins, 3-
way stop, Roach/N 7th Ave 4-way stop, Virginia/N 11th Ave 4-way stop sign, Jackson/N 10th Ave 4-way
stop sign.
Ayes: Councilmembers Barnes, Cardwell, Goard, Miller, and Shelton
Nays: None
Motion carried unanimously

Staff was directed to coordinate the installation of the appropriate signage and any required
notifications.

Motion by Councilmember Miller, seconded by Councilmember Shelton, approved reducing the speed
limit to 25 miles per hour on all Town-maintained roads from 1st Avenue through 13th Avenue.
Ayes: Councilmembers Barnes, Cardwell, Goard, Miller, and Shelton
Nays: None
Motion carried unanimously

Council directed Town Manager Shuler and Public Works Director Joey Hudy to research bolt-down
speed bumps, obtain a cost estimate for installing one speed bump, and evaluate additional locations and
associated costs for future installations.


Mayor Lake asked Town Manager Melody Shuler to discuss Connie Fox's drainage concerns with the
Town's engineer, Bill Lester, during their upcoming meeting. He stated that Ms. Fox's property appears
to have significant drainage issues and expressed concern that her situation has not been adequately
addressed. Mayor Lake noted that, unlike other nearby areas where drainage improvements have been
made, water at Ms. Fox's property does not properly drain to the street. He asked the engineer to
determine whether there are improvements that could be made to alleviate the drainage problems before
the North Seventh Avenue widening project is undertaken, recognizing that the roadway improvements
may still be some time away.

Mayor Lake asked Public Works Director Joey Hudy to inspect the Town-maintained culverts in the
area, noting that at least one appeared to be obstructed with debris. He requested that Public Works
evaluate the culverts and clean them as needed to improve drainage and help alleviate existing
stormwater issues.

Motion by Councilmember Shelton, seconded by Councilmember Cardwell, to adjourn meeting.
Ayes: Councilmembers Barnes, Cardwell, Goard, Miller, and Shelton
Nays: None
Motion carried unanimously
Meeting adjourned at 8:40 p.m.


ATTEST:




______________________                                             ___________________
Sarah Hopper, Town Clerk                                           E. Dwight Lake, Mayor


                                    AGENDA ITEM COVER

Item for Agenda:   Interlocal Agreement Between the Town of Mayodan and the Town of Stoneville for
                   Shared Code Enforcement Services

Placement on       Consent Agenda
Agenda:

Presenter:         Melody Shuler, Town Manager

Description of     Background
Agenda Item or     During the FY2026-27 budget process, the Town of Mayodan and the Town of
Other Pertinent    Stoneville agreed to establish a shared, full-time Code Enforcement Officer to improve
Information for    consistency and efficiency in code enforcement across both jurisdictions. Following
Council:           adoption of the FY2026-27 budget, staff began advertising the position, with a goal of
                   having someone on board in July.
                   The attached Interlocal Agreement, authorized under NCGS § 160A-461, formalizes the
                   arrangement. Mayodan will serve as the employing municipality, with costs split 65.6%
                   Mayodan / 34.4% Stoneville (estimated first-year cost of $74,550). The Officer’s time
                   will initially be allocated three days per week in Mayodan and two days per week in
                   Stoneville. The Agreement runs through June 30, 2027, and may be terminated by either
                   party with 90 days’ written notice.
                   Requested Action
                   Council is requested to approve the Interlocal Agreement for Shared Code Enforcement
                   Services with the Town of Stoneville and authorize the Town Manager to execute the
                   Agreement on behalf of the Town.


  Town of Mayodan. 210 W. Main Street. Mayodan. NC. 27027. (336)427.0241. www.townofmayodan.com
                                James A. Collins Municipal Building



INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE TOWN OF MAYODAN AND THE TOWN OF STONEVILLE
FOR SHARED CODE ENFORCEMENT SERVICES

This Interlocal Agreement is entered into this ___ day of __________, 2026, by and between the
Town of Mayodan, North Carolina, and the Town of Stoneville, North Carolina collectively
referred to as the “Parties.”


WHEREAS North Carolina General Statute §160A-461 authorizes units of local government to
enter into interlocal agreements for the joint exercise of governmental functions; and

WHEREAS both municipalities recognize the importance of maintaining community standards
through effective and consistent code enforcement services; and

WHEREAS the Parties desire to establish a cooperative partnership to share the services of a
full-time Code Enforcement Officer to improve responsiveness, consistency, and efficiency in
enforcement activities; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Mayodan has agreed to serve as the employing municipality and
administer payroll, benefits, onboarding, and related administrative responsibilities associated
with the position.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants contained herein,
the Parties agree as follows:

SECTION 1. PURPOSE
The purpose of this Agreement is to establish a cooperative arrangement between the Town of
Mayodan and the Town of Stoneville for the shared employment and utilization of a full-time
Code Enforcement Officer to serve both municipalities.

SECTION 2. SERVICES PROVIDED
The shared Code Enforcement Officer shall provide enforcement and administrative services
related to municipal code violations within both jurisdictions, including but not limited to:
    • High grass and weeds
    • Junk and debris
    • Abandoned vehicles
    • Minimum housing violations
    • General nuisance enforcement
    • Property maintenance enforcement


Additional responsibilities shall include:
   • Maintaining a shared tracking system of cases and statuses
   • Providing regular updates to both the Manager/Administrator of each Town
   • Scheduling coordination meetings with each municipality
   • Verifying property ownership for enforcement actions
   • Coordinating enforcement procedures consistently between both towns

SECTION 3. EMPLOYMENT & ADMINISTRATION
The Town of Mayodan shall serve as the employment municipality and shall be responsible for:
   • Hiring and supervision of the employee
   • Payroll administration
   • Employee benefits administration
   • Human resources and onboarding functions
   • Provision of equipment and software necessary for operations
The Code Enforcement Officer shall always remain an employee of the Town of Mayodan.

SECTION 4. COST SHARING
FY 2026-2027 COST ALLOCATION
The Parties agree to allocate costs proportionally based on estimated population figures as
follows:
    • Town of Mayodan: 65.6%
    • Town of Stoneville: 34.4%
The estimated first-year total cost for the shared position, including one-time startup expenses, is
$74,550.
The anticipated first-year contributions shall be:
    • Mayodan Contribution: $48,905
    • Stoneville Contribution: $25,645
One-time startup costs include approximately $1,400 for IT equipment and setup expenses.
FUTURE YEAR COSTS
The estimated ongoing annual cost beginning in FY 2027-2028 is projected at approximately
$73,150, subject to annual budget adoption and operational adjustments.
Projected ongoing annual contributions are estimated as follows:
    • Mayodan Contribution: $47,986
    • Stoneville Contribution: $25,164
The Parties agree to review the cost-sharing structure annually and may adjust allocations based
on workload, case volume, or mutual agreement.

SECTION 5. PAYMENT TERMS
Stoneville shall remit payment to the Town of Mayodan at the beginning of each quarter for its
portion of the shared code enforcement costs.

SECTION 6. TIME ALLOCATION
The initial time allocation for the Code Enforcement Officer shall be approximately:
   • Mayodan: Three (3) days per week
   • Stoneville: Two (2) days per week
The Parties acknowledge that actual scheduling may vary based on workload demands,
emergencies, enforcement priorities, and operational needs.

SECTION 7. ADDITIONAL EXPENSES
Stoneville shall remain separately responsible for costs associated with enforcement activities
occurring within its jurisdiction, including but not limited to:
   • Legal advertisements


   •   Postage and mailing expenses
   •   Cleanup and abatement costs
   •   Towing expenses
   •   Demolition costs
   •   Court-related expenses

SECTION 8. TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall become effective upon execution by both Parties and shall remain in effect
until June 30, 2027, unless terminated earlier in accordance with this Agreement. The Agreement
may be renewed annually upon mutual written consent of both Parties.

SECTION 9. TERMINATION
Either Party may terminate this Agreement with ninety (90) days written notice to the other
Party. In the event of termination, both Parties shall remain responsible for any outstanding
financial obligations incurred prior to the termination date.

SECTION 10. LIABILITY
Each Party shall be responsible for its own acts and omissions and those of its officers,
employees, and agents. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a waiver of governmental
immunity under North Carolina law.

SECTION 11. ENTIRE AGREEMENT
This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between the Parties regarding the shared
Code Enforcement Officer program and supersedes any prior verbal or written agreements
related thereto.

SECTION 12. AUTHORIZATION
This Agreement has been duly authorized by the governing boards of both municipalities.
TOWN OF MAYODAN
By: ____________________________________
Name: _________________________________
Title: _________________________________
Date: __________________________________
Attest: _________________________________

TOWN OF STONEVILLE
By: ____________________________________
Name: _________________________________
Title: _________________________________
Date: __________________________________
Attest: _________________________________


                                      AGENDA ITEM COVER

Item for Agenda:   Agreement with NCDOT for the US 220 Business Multi-Use Path Project (TIP #
                   EB-5891)

Placement on       Consent Agenda
Agenda:

Presenter:         Melody Shuler, Town Manager

Description of     Background
Agenda Item or     The Town has received a Locally Administered Project agreement from the
Other Pertinent    North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) for design and
Information for    construction of a multi-use path along US 220 Business, extending from
Council:           Madison Street in downtown Mayodan to the entrance of Mayo River State
                   Park (TIP # EB-5891).
                   Under this Agreement, NCDOT will administer federal funding on the Town’s
                   behalf, up to a maximum award of $8,603,000, with the Town serving as the
                   Municipality responsible for administering the following phases of the Project,
                   including design, environmental documentation, right-of-way acquisition,
                   utility relocation, and contract administration. NCDOT will construct the Project
                   once all required phases are completed and approved. Reimbursement is
                   provided at an 80% federal share, with the Town’s required local match
                   satisfied through previously awarded toll credits.
                   The Town’s required match of $156,000 has already been appropriated across
                   FY2024-25 and FY2026-27, and all funds necessary to proceed are in place.
                   As the Agreement places primary responsibility and liability for the Project on
                   the Town, staff will ensure that the Town’s on-call engineering firm is engaged
                   and prepared to support the Project, that appropriate insurance coverage is in
                   place, and that a full-time Town employee is designated as the Person in
                   Responsible Charge as required under the Agreement. Following execution of
                   the Agreement, the Town will advertise for engineering services to support
                   delivery of the Project and assist with meeting the Agreement’s requirements.
                   Requested Action
                   Council is requested to approve the Locally Administered Project Agreement
                   with NCDOT for the US 220 Business Multi-Use Path Project (TIP # EB-5891) and
                   authorize the Town Manager to execute the Agreement on behalf of the Town.


 NORTH CAROLINA                                     LOCALLY ADMINISTERED PROJECT -
                                                    FEDERAL
 ROCKINGHAM COUNTY
                                                                        DATE:    6/4/2026
 NORTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF
 TRANSPORTATION
                                                                        TIP #:   EB-5891
                       AND                                   WBS Elements:       PE         47287.1.1
                                                                                 ROW        47287.2.1
                                                                                 UTIL       47287.2.2
 TOWN OF MAYODAN                                                                 CON        47287.3.1
                                                                   OTHER FUNDING:
                                                            FEDERAL-AID NUMBER:
                                                                        ALN #:   20.287
                                         Total Funds [NCDOT Participation]       $8,603,000



THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into on the last date executed below, by and between the
North Carolina Department of Transportation, an agency of the State of North Carolina, hereinafter
referred to as the “Department” and the Town of Mayodan, hereinafter referred to as the
“Municipality”.

                                           W I T N E S S E T H:

WHEREAS, the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) allows for the allocation of federal funds
to be available for certain specified transportation activities; and,

WHEREAS, the Municipality has requested federal funding for design and construction of multi-use
path along US 220 Business, hereinafter referred to as the Project, in Rockingham County, North
Carolina; and,

WHEREAS, subject to the availability of federal funds, the Municipality has been designated as a
recipient to receive funds allocated to the Department by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)
up to and not to exceed the maximum award amount of $8,603,000 for the Project; and,

WHEREAS, the Department has agreed to administer the disbursement of said funds on behalf of
FHWA to the Municipality for the Project in accordance with the Project scope of work and in
accordance with the provisions set out in this Agreement; and,

WHEREAS, the Department has programmed funding in the approved State Transportation
Improvement Program (STIP) for the Project; and,



Agreement ID # 13616                               1


WHEREAS, the Municipality has applied for and has been awarded toll credits to use towards the
non-federal match for the additional costs of the Project; and

WHEREAS, the governing board of the Municipality has agreed to participate in certain costs and to
assume certain responsibilities in the manner and to the extent as hereinafter set out; and,

WHEREAS, this Agreement is made under the authority granted to the Department by the North
Carolina General Assembly including, but not limited to, the following applicable legislation: General
Statutes of North Carolina (NCGS) Section 136-66.1, Section 136-71.6, Section 160A-296 and 297,
Section 136-18, Section 136-41.3 and Section 20-169, to participate in the planning, construction
and/or implementation of the Project approved by the Board of Transportation.

WHEREAS, a separate agreement will be developed for the construction phase of the Project;

NOW, THEREFORE, this Agreement states the promises and undertakings of each party as herein
provided, and the parties do hereby covenant and agree, each with the other, as follows:


1. GENERAL PROVISIONS


    FEDERAL FUNDING ACCOUNTABILITY AND TRANSPARENCY ACT

    All parties to this Agreement, including contractors, subcontractors, and subsequent workforces,
    associated with any work under the terms of this Agreement shall provide reports as required by
    the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act (FFATA) for this Project.


    AGREEMENT MODIFICATIONS

    Any modification to scope, funding, responsibilities, or time frame will be agreed upon by all
    parties by means of a Supplemental Agreement.


    LOCAL PUBLIC AGENCY TO PERFORM ALL WORK

    The Municipality shall be responsible for administering all work performed and for certifying to the
    Department that all terms set forth in this Agreement are met and adhered to by the Municipality
    and/or its contractors and agents. The Department will provide technical oversight to guide the
    Municipality. The Department must approve any assignment or transfer of the responsibilities of
    the Municipality set forth in this Agreement to other parties or entities.

    PERSON IN RESPONSIBLE CHARGE


Agreement ID # 13616                               2


   The Municipality shall designate a person or persons to be in responsible charge of the Project, in
   accordance with Title 23 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 635.105. The person, or
   persons, shall be expected to:

          Administer governmental project activities, including those dealing with cost, time,
           adherence to contract requirements, construction quality and scope of Federal-aid
           projects;

          Maintain knowledge of day to day project operations and safety issues;

          Make or participate in decisions about changed conditions or scope changes that require
           change orders or supplemental agreements;

          Visit and review the project in accordance with the project scope and scale;

          Review financial processes, transactions and documentation to reduce the likelihood of
           fraud, waste, and abuse;

          Direct project staff, agency or consultant, to carry out project administration and contract
           oversight, including proper documentation; and

          Be aware of the qualifications, assignments and on-the-job performance of the agency
           and consultant staff at all stages of the project.

   The person in responsible charge must be a full-time employee of the Municipality, but the duties
   may be split among several employees, if necessary.


   COMPLIANCE WITH STATE/FEDERAL POLICY

   The Municipality, and/or its agent, including all contractors, subcontractors, or sub-recipients shall
   comply with all applicable Federal and State policies and procedures, stated both in this
   Agreement and in the Department’s guidelines and procedures, including the Local Programs
   Management Handbook.


   FAILURE TO COMPLY - CONSEQUENCES

   Failure on the part of the Municipality to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement will
   be grounds for the Department to terminate participation in the costs of the Project and, if
   applicable, seek repayment of any reimbursed funds.




Agreement ID # 13616                             3


2. SCOPE OF PROJECT

   The Project consists of design and construction of a multi-use path along US 220 Business from
   Madison Street in downtown Mayodan to the entrance of Mayo River State Park.

   The Department’s funding participation in the Project shall be restricted to the following eligible
   items:

           Design

           Environmental Documentation

           ROW Acquisition

           Utility Relocation

           Construction

       as further set forth in this Agreement.


3. FUNDING


   TOTAL AVAILABLE FUNDING

   The Department and the Municipality have re-evaluated total estimated project costs and the
   Department has provided a Cost Verification Memo (CVM) dated 4/27/2025, which is the basis for
   the Total Available Funding for the Project. If costs exceed the Total Available Funding, the
   Department and the Municipality will confer to determine the eligibility of additional costs and to
   identify funding for those costs. The Department will provide a new CVM and the Department and
   Municipality shall enter into a Supplemental Agreement.

   PROGRAMMING AND AUTHORIZATION OF FEDERAL FUNDS

   The funding currently programmed for the project in the State Transportation Improvement
   Program (STIP) is Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP). The funding source may be
   modified with the coordination and approval of the respective Metropolitan Planning Organization
   (MPO) and/or the Department prior to authorization of funds. The Department will authorize and
   reimburse federal funding based on the type of federal funding that is programmed in the STIP at
   the time of the authorization request. The Department will notify the Municipality of the type of
   federal funds authorized by issuing a Technical Amendment – Funds Authorization letter. A


Agreement ID # 13616                             4


   modification in the source of funds will have no effect on project responsibilities outlined in this
   agreement.

   TOLL CREDITS AS NON-FEDERAL MATCH

   The Department has also programmed toll credits for the non-federal match for the increased
   cost of the Project. The toll credits will allow the Department to reimburse 100% of costs incurred
   by the Municipality beyond the initial funding award.

   REIMBURSEMENT FOR ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES

   Subject to compliance by the Municipality with the provisions set forth in this Agreement and the
   availability of federal funds, the Department shall reimburse 80% of eligible expenses incurred by
   the Municipality up to a maximum amount of Six Hundred Twenty-Five Thousand Six Hundred
   Dollars ($625,600) and thereafter, will reimburse 100% of costs, as detailed below.



                                          FUNDING TABLE
 Fund Source        Federal      Reimbursement        Non-Federal          Non-Federal          TOTAL
                     Funds           Rate               Match $            Match Rate          FUNDING
                    Amount
Trans.              $625,600           80%                 $156,400            20%             $782,000
Alternatives                                               (LOCAL)
Prog (TAP)
TAP + TOLL        $6,382,400           80%               $1,595,600            20%            $7,978,000
CREDITS                                                      (TOLL
                                                           CREDIT)
Subtotal          $7,008,000           80%               $1,752,000            20%
Total Available Funding                              $8,760,000



   WORK PERFORMED BY NCDOT

   All work performed by the Department on this Project, including, but not limited to, reviews,
   inspections, and Project oversight, during any phase of the delivery of the Project, shall reduce
   the funding available to the Municipality under this Agreement. The Department will set aside, but
   is not limited to, ten percent (10%) of the total available funding, or $876,000, to use towards the
   costs related to review and oversight of this Project. These costs may include but are not limited
   to: review and approval of plans, environmental documents, contract proposals, and engineering
   estimates; performance of any phase of work, for example, contract administration or construction
   engineering and inspection; oversight of any phases; or any other items as needed to ensure the
   Municipality’s appropriate compliance with state and federal regulations.



Agreement ID # 13616                             5


   In the event that the Department does not utilize all the set-aside funding, then those remaining
   funds will be available for reimbursement to the Municipality at the above reimbursement rate. For
   all costs of work performed on the Project, whether incurred by the Municipality or by the
   Department, the Municipality shall provide the non-federal match. The Department will bill the
   Municipality for the non-federal match of any costs that the Department incurs on the Project and
   for any costs that exceed the total available funding.


4. PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE

   MILESTONE DATES AND REVISIONS

   The Municipality is responsible for regularly updating project milestones throughout the life of the
   project. If project milestones are near (or have passed without completion) and have not been
   updated to a realistic schedule by the Municipality, the Department reserves the right to revise the
   milestones accordingly. Revisions by the Department could lead to milestones being pushed into
   another fiscal year resulting in a change to the STIP. The Department is not responsible for
   project delays caused by these milestone revisions.


   SCHEDULE

   The Department and the Municipality agree to the following milestone dates for Project delivery:


       •   START OF ROW ACQUISTION                          03/30/2030             ROW FFY 2030

       •   LET DATE (date of opening bids)                  10/02/2031             CON FFY 2032


   EXTENDING COMPLETION DATE

   If additional time is needed to complete the Project, then a supplemental agreement must be
   executed. The Department may allow up to three additional months for submission of final
   reimbursement package by the Municipality, without entering into a supplemental agreement. The
   Department and/or FHWA reserves the right to revoke the funds awarded if the Municipality is
   unable to meet milestone dates included herein.


5. PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING AUTHORIZATION

   If Preliminary Engineering is an eligible expense, then upon receipt of an executed agreement,
   the Department will authorize Preliminary Engineering funds and shall notify the Municipality, in
   writing, once funds have been authorized and can be expended. The Municipality shall not initiate


Agreement ID # 13616                            6


   any work, nor solicit for any professional services prior to receipt of written authorization from the
   Department to proceed. Any work performed, or contracts executed, prior to receipt of written
   authorization to proceed will be ineligible for reimbursement.


6. PROFESSIONAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICES

   The Municipality shall comply with the policies and procedures of this provision if the Municipality
   is requesting reimbursement for the Preliminary Engineering contract or the Construction
   Contract Administration / Construction Engineering and Inspection contract.


   PROCUREMENT POLICY

   When procuring professional services, the Municipality must adhere to Title 2 Code of Federal
   Regulations Part 200; Title 23 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 172; Title 40 United
   States Code, Chapter 11, Section 1101-1104; NCGS 143-64.31; and the Department’s Policies
   and Procedures for Major Professional or Specialized Services Contracts. Said policies and
   standards are incorporated in this Agreement by reference at
   www.fhwa.dot.gov/legsregs/legislat.html and www.ncleg.net/gascripts/Statutes/Statutes.asp.

          The Municipality shall ensure that a qualified firm is obtained through an equitable
           selection process, and that prescribed work is properly accomplished in a timely manner
           and at a just and reasonable cost.

          All Professional Services Firms shall be pre-qualified by the Department in the Work
           Codes advertised.

          A pre-negotiation audit will be conducted by the Department’s External Audit Branch.
           The Municipality shall not execute a consultant contract until the Department’s review has
           been completed.


   SMALL PROFESSIONAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICES FIRMS REQUIREMENTS

   Any contract entered into with another party to perform work associated with the requirements of
   this Agreement shall contain appropriate provisions regarding the utilization of Small Professional
   Services Firms (SPSF). This policy conforms with the SPSF Guidelines as approved by the North
   Carolina Board of Transportation.




Agreement ID # 13616                             7


          The Municipality shall not advertise nor enter into a contract for services performed as
           part of this Agreement, unless the Department provides written approval of the
           advertisement or the contents of the contract.

          If the Municipality fails to comply with these requirements, the Department will withhold
           funding until these requirements are met.


   WORK BY ENTITY

   If the Design, Planning, Contract Administration and/or Construction Engineering and Inspection
   required for this project will be undertaken by the Municipality, and the Municipality requests
   reimbursement, then the Municipality must submit a request and supporting documentation to the
   Department for review and approval, prior to any work being initiated by the Municipality.


7. PLANNING / ENVIRONMENTAL DOCUMENTATION

   The Municipality shall prepare the environmental and/or planning document, including any
   environmental permits, needed to construct the Project, in accordance with the National
   Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and all other appropriate environmental laws and regulations.
   All work shall be performed in accordance with Departmental procedures and guidelines. Said
   documentation shall be submitted to the Department for review and approval.

          The Municipality shall be responsible for preparing and filing with all proper agencies the
           appropriate planning documents, including notices and applications required to apply for
           those permits necessary for the construction of the desired improvements. Copies of
           approved permits should be forwarded to the Department.

          The Municipality shall advertise and conduct any required public hearings.

          If any permit issued requires that action be taken to mitigate impacts associated with the
           improvements, the Municipality shall design and implement a mitigation plan. The
           Department will determine if any mitigation costs are eligible for reimbursement. The
           Municipality shall bear all costs associated with penalties for violations and claims due to
           delays.

          The Municipality shall be responsible for designing an erosion control plan if required by
           the North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control Act of 1973, NCGS 113A, Article 4,
           incorporated in this Agreement by reference at
           https://www.ncleg.gov/Laws/GeneralStatutes and obtaining those permits required


Agreement ID # 13616                            8


           thereby in order to construct the Project. During the construction of the improvements,
           the Municipality, and its contractors and agents, shall be solely responsible for
           compliance with the provisions of said Act and the plan adopted in compliance therewith.


8. DESIGN


   CONTENT OF PLAN PACKAGE

   The Municipality, and/or its agent, shall prepare the Project’s plans, specifications, and a
   professional estimate of costs (PS&E package), in accordance with the Department’s guidelines
   and procedures, and applicable Federal and State standards. All work shall be submitted to the
   Department for review and approval. The plans shall be completed to show the design, site plans,
   landscaping, drainage, easements, and utility conflicts.


9. RIGHT OF WAY / UTILITY AUTHORIZATION

   If the costs of right of way acquisition or utility relocation are an eligible expense, the Municipality
   shall submit a letter of request to the Department to authorize and set up right of way and/or utility
   funding. The acquisition for right of way, construction easements, and/or utility relocation may be
   undertaken only after the Municipality receives written authorization from the Department to
   proceed.


10. PROJECT LIMITS AND RIGHT OF WAY (ROW)


   The Municipality shall comply with the policies and procedures of this provision regardless of
   whether the Municipality is requesting reimbursement for the Right of Way phase of the Project.


   SPONSOR PROVIDES ROW

   The Municipality, at no liability whatsoever to the Department, shall be responsible for providing
   and/or acquiring any required ROW and/or easements for the Project.


   ROW GUIDANCE

   The Municipality shall accomplish all ROW activities, including acquisition and relocation, in
   accordance with the following: Title 23 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 710, Subpart B
   and Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 24, [Uniform Act] incorporated by reference
   at www.fhwa.dot.gov/legsregs/directives/fapgtoc.htm; NCGS, Chapter 133, Article 2, Sections

Agreement ID # 13616                              9


   133-5 through 133-18, Relocation Assistance, incorporated by reference at
   https://www.ncleg.gov/Laws/GeneralStatutes ; and the North Carolina Department of
   Transportation Right of Way Manual.


   APPRAISAL

   The Municipality shall submit the appraisal to the Department for review and approval in
   accordance with Departmental policies and procedures.


   CLEARANCE OF PROJECT LIMITS / ROW

   The Municipality shall remove and dispose of all obstructions and encroachments of any kind or
   character (including hazardous and contaminated materials) from said ROW, with the exception
   that the Municipality shall secure an encroachment agreement for any utilities (which shall remain
   or are) to be installed within the Department’s ROW, or follow other applicable approval process,
   for utilities within the Municipality’s ROW. The Municipality shall indemnify and save harmless
   the Department, Federal Highway Administration, and the State of North Carolina, from any and
   all damages and claims for damages that might arise on account of said right of way acquisition,
   drainage, and construction easements for the construction of said Project. The Municipality shall
   be solely responsible for any damages caused by the existence of said material now and at any
   time in the future and will save the Department harmless from any legal actions arising as a result
   of this contaminated and/or hazardous material and shall provide the Department with
   documentation proving the proper disposal of said material.


   RELOCATION ASSISTANCE

   The Municipality shall provide relocation assistance services and payments for families,
   businesses, and non-profit organizations being displaced by the Project in full accordance with
   the Federal relocation requirements of Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 24 [Uniform
   Act], as amended. Relocation assistance services and payments may be accomplished by
   contract with any other municipal corporation, or State or Federal agency, rendering such
   services upon approval by the Department and Federal Highway Administration.


11. UTILITIES

   The Municipality, and/or its agent, at no liability to the Department, shall relocate, adjust, relay,
   change or repair all utilities in conflict with the Project, regardless of ownership. All utility work
   shall be performed in a manner satisfactory to and in conformance with State and Federal rules


Agreement ID # 13616                              10


   and regulations, prior to Municipality beginning construction of the project. This Agreement does
   not modify or supersede any existing Utility Encroachment Agreements that may be in place.


12. RIGHT OF WAY / UTILITY / RAILROAD CERTIFICATION

   The Municipality, upon acquisition of all right of way/property necessary for the Project, relocation
   of utilities, and coordination with the railroad shall provide the Department all required
   documentation (deeds/leases/easement/plans/agreements) to secure certification. Certification is
   only issued after all ROW is in public ownership or property is publicly accessible by a legal
   document; utilities in conflict with the project are relocated, or a plan for their relocation during
   construction has been approved; and coordination with the railroad (if applicable) has occurred
   and been documented.


13. CONTRACT PROPOSAL AND ENGINEER’S ESTIMATE


   CONTRACT PROPOSAL

   The Municipality shall develop a contract proposal that will be advertised for bids. The proposal
   shall comply with NCDOT Specifications and Standard Drawings as applicable to the Project. The
   proposal shall also contain provisions, as applicable, per Title 23 Code of Federal Regulations
   633 and 635 to include, but not be limited to: FHWA 1273, Buy America, Davis-Bacon Wage
   Rates, Non-discrimination, DBE Assurances, Contractor Certification regarding suspension and
   debarment, and other provisions as required by the Department.

   ENGINEER’S ESTIMATE

   The Municipality shall develop an itemized engineer’s estimate to show items referenced to the
   NCDOT Standard Specifications, if applicable, along with units and unit price. The engineer’s
   estimate will be used as the basis for comparing bids received.


14. CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATION

   The Municipality shall submit the required environmental and/or planning document, ROW
   certification, final construction plans, total contract proposal, and an estimate of Project costs
   (final PS&E package) to the Department for review and approval.

   After approval of all documentation, the Department will request construction authorization from
   the Federal Highway Administration.



Agreement ID # 13616                              11


15. CONSTRUCTION

   The Department shall construct the Project in accordance with the plans and specifications for the
   Project. The Department shall administer the construction contract for said Project. All work shall
   be done in accordance with Departmental standards, specifications, policies, and procedures.


16. MAINTENANCE

   The Municipality, at no expense or liability to the Department, shall assume all maintenance
   responsibilities for the design and construction of the multi-use path. or as required by an
   executed encroachment agreement.


17. REIMBURSEMENT


   SCOPE OF REIMBURSEMENT

   Activities eligible for funding reimbursement to the Municipality for this Project shall include:

          Design

          Environmental Documentation

          ROW Acquisition

          Utility Relocation


   REIMBURSEMENT GUIDANCE

   The Municipality shall adhere to applicable administrative requirements of Title 2 Code of Federal
   Regulations, Part 200 (www.fhwa.dot.gov/legsregs/directives/fapgtoc.htm) “Uniform
   Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.”
   Reimbursement to the Municipality shall be subject to the policies and procedures contained in
   Title 23 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 140 and Part 172, which is being incorporated into this
   Agreement by reference at www.fhwa.dot.gov/legsregs/directives/fapgtoc.htm. Reimbursement to
   the Municipality shall be subject to the guidance contained in Title 2 Code of Federal Regulations,
   Part 170 (http://edocket.access.gpo.gov/2010/pdf/2010-22705.pdf) and Office of Management
   and Budget (OMB) “Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act” (FFATA). Said
   reimbursement shall also be subject to the Department being reimbursed by the Federal Highway




Agreement ID # 13616                             12


   Administration and subject to compliance by the Municipality with all applicable federal policy and
   procedures.


   REIMBURSEMENT LIMITS

          WORK PERFORMED BEFORE NOTIFICATION

           Any costs incurred by the Municipality prior to written notification by the Department to
           proceed with the work shall not be eligible for reimbursement.

          NO REIMBURSEMENT IN EXCESS OF APPROVED FUNDING

           At no time shall the Department reimburse the Municipality costs that exceed the total
           funding per this Agreement and any Supplemental Agreements.

          UNSUBSTANTIATED COSTS

           The Municipality agrees that it shall bear all costs for which it is unable to substantiate
           actual costs or any costs that have been deemed unallowable by the Federal Highway
           Administration and/or the Department’s Financial Management Division.

          WORK PERFORMED BY NCDOT

           All work performed by the Department on this Project, including, but not limited to,
           reviews, inspections, and Project oversight, shall reduce the maximum award amount of
           $8,603,000 available to the Municipality under this Agreement. The Department will bill
           the Municipality for the non-federal match of any costs that the Department incurs on the
           Project and for any costs that exceed the total available funding..

          RIGHT OF WAY

           Reimbursement will be limited to the value as approved by the Department. Eligible costs
           for reimbursement of Right of Way Acquisition include: realty appraisals, surveys, closing
           costs, and the agreed upon just compensation for the property, at the reimbursement rate
           as shown in the FUNDING TABLE.


   BILLING THE DEPARTMENT

          PROCEDURE




Agreement ID # 13616                            13


              The Municipality may bill the Department for eligible Project costs in accordance with the
              Department’s guidelines and procedures. Proper supporting documentation shall
              accompany each invoice as may be required by the Department. By submittal of each
              invoice, the Municipality certifies that it has adhered to all applicable state and federal
              laws and regulations as set forth in this Agreement.

              Along with each invoice, the Municipality is responsible for submitting the FFATA
              Subrecipient Information Form, which is available at
              https://connect.ncdot.gov/municipalities/Funding/Pages/default.aspx.

             INTERNAL APPROVALS

              Reimbursement to the Municipality shall be made upon approval of the invoice by the
              Department’s Financial Management Division.

             TIMELY SUBMITTAL OF INVOICES

              The Municipality may invoice the Department monthly for work accomplished, but no less
              than once every six (6) months to keep the Project funds active and available. If the
              Municipality is unable to invoice the Department, then they must provide an explanation.
              Failure to submit invoices or explanation may result in de-obligation of funds.

             FINAL INVOICE

              All invoices associated with the Project must be submitted within six (6) months of the
              completion of construction and acceptance of the Project to be eligible for reimbursement
              by the Department. Any invoices submitted after this time will not be eligible for
              reimbursement.


18. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND RECORDS RETENTION


   PROJECT EVALUATION REPORTS

   The Municipality is responsible for submitting quarterly Project evaluation reports, in accordance
   with the Department’s guidelines and procedures, that detail the progress achieved to date for the
   Project.




Agreement ID # 13616                               14


   PROJECT RECORDS

   The Municipality and its agents shall maintain all books, documents, papers, accounting records,
   Project records and such other evidence as may be appropriate to substantiate costs incurred
   under this Agreement. Further, the Municipality shall make such materials available at its office
   and shall require its agent to make such materials available at its office at all reasonable times
   during the contract period, and for five (5) years from the date of payment of the final voucher by
   the Federal Highway Administration, for inspection and audit by the Department’s Financial
   Management Section, the Federal Highway Administration, or any authorized representatives of
   the Federal Government.


19. OTHER PROVISIONS


   REFERENCES

   It will be the responsibility of the Municipality to follow the current and/or most recent edition of
   references, websites, specifications, standards, guidelines, recommendations, regulations and/or
   general statutes, as stated in this Agreement.


   INDEMNIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT

   The Municipality will indemnify and hold harmless the FHWA (if applicable), the Department and
   the State of North Carolina, their respective officers, directors, principals, employees, agents,
   successors, and assigns from and against any and all claims for damage and/or liability, including
   those that may be initiated by third parties, in connection with the Project activities performed
   pursuant to this Agreement including construction of the Project, except for those claims arising
   out of the errors, omissions, or negligence of the Department, its respective officers, directors,
   principals, employees, agents, successors, and assigns.


   DEBARMENT POLICY

   It is the policy of the Department not to enter into any agreement with parties that have been
   debarred by any government agency (Federal or State). By execution of this agreement, the
   Municipality certifies that neither it nor its agents or contractors are presently debarred,
   suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible or voluntarily excluded from participation
   in this transaction by any Federal or State Agency or Department and that it will not enter into
   agreements with any entity that is debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared
   ineligible or voluntarily excluded from participation in this transaction.


Agreement ID # 13616                             15


   TITLE VI - CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964

   The Municipality shall comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, (Title 49 CFR, Subtitle
   A, Part 21). Title VI prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability,
   gender, and age in all programs or activities of any recipient of Federal assistance.


   OTHER AGREEMENTS

   The Municipality is solely responsible for all agreements, contracts, and work orders entered into
   or issued by the Municipality for this Project. The Department is not responsible for any expenses
   or obligations incurred for the Project except those specifically eligible for the funds and
   obligations as approved by the Department under the terms of this Agreement.


   AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS

   All terms and conditions of this Agreement are dependent upon, and, subject to the allocation of
   funds for the purpose set forth in the Agreement and the Agreement shall automatically terminate
   if funds cease to be available.


   IMPROPER USE OF FUNDS

   Where either the Department or the FHWA determines that the funds paid to the Municipality for
   this Project are not used in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Department will bill
   the Municipality.


   TERMINATION OF PROJECT

   If the Municipality decides to terminate the Project without the concurrence of the Department, the
   Municipality shall reimburse the Department one hundred percent (100%) of all costs expended
   by the Department and associated with the Project.


   AUDITS

   In accordance with 2 CFR 200 “Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit
   Requirements for Federal Awards,” Subpart F – Audit Requirements, and the Federal Single
   Audit Act Amendments of 1996, the Municipality shall arrange for an annual independent financial
   and compliance audit of its fiscal operations. The Municipality shall furnish the Department with a
   copy of the annual independent audit report within thirty (30) days of completion of the report, but
   not later than nine (9) months after the Municipality’s fiscal year ends.

Agreement ID # 13616                              16


   REIMBURSEMENT BY MUNICIPALITY

   For all monies due the Department as referenced in this Agreement, reimbursement shall be
   made by the Municipality to the Department within sixty (60) days of receiving an invoice. A late
   payment penalty and interest shall be charged on any unpaid balance due in accordance with
   NCGS 147-86.23.


   USE OF POWELL BILL FUNDS

   If the other party to this agreement is a Municipality and fails for any reason to reimburse the
   Department in accordance with the provisions for payment hereinabove provided, NCGS 136-
   41.3 authorizes the Department to withhold so much of the Municipality’s share of funds allocated
   to Municipality by NCGS 136-41.1, until such time as the Department has received payment in
   full.


   ENTIRE AGREEMENT

   This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties and there are no
   understandings or agreements, verbal or otherwise, regarding this Agreement except as
   expressly set forth herein.


   AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE

   The parties hereby acknowledge that the individual executing the Agreement on their behalf is
   authorized to execute this Agreement on their behalf and to bind the respective entities to the
   terms contained herein and that he has read this Agreement, conferred with his attorney, and fully
   understands its contents.


   COUNTERPARTS AND ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES

              This Agreement, and other documents to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement, may
               be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original
               copy and all of which, when taken together, will be deemed to constitute one and the
               same agreement or document and will be effective when counterparts have been signed
               by each of the Parties. An image of a manual signature on this Agreement, or other
               documents to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement, will constitute an original
               signature for all purposes. The delivery of copies of this Agreement or other documents
               to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement, including executed signature pages where



Agreement ID # 13616                              17


            required, by electronic transmission will constitute effective delivery of this Agreement or
            such other document for all purposes.

           The Parties hereto further acknowledge and agree that this Agreement may be signed
            and/or transmitted by email or a PDF document or using electronic signature technology
            (e.g. DocuSign, Adobe Sign, or other electronic signature technology), and that such
            signed record shall be valid and as effective to bind the Party so signing as a paper copy
            bearing such Party’s handwritten signature. By selecting "I Agree”, “I Accept”, or other
            similar item, button, or icon via use of a keypad, mouse, or other device, as part of the
            electronic signature technology, the Parties consent to be legally bound by the terms and
            conditions of Agreement and that such act constitutes a signature as if actually signed in
            writing. The Parties also agree that no certification authority or other third-party
            verification is necessary to validate its electronic signature and that the lack of such
            certification or third-party verification will not in any way affect the enforceability of its
            electronic signature. The Parties acknowledge and agree that delivery of a copy of this
            Agreement or any other document contemplated hereby through the electronic signature
            technology, will have the same effect as physical delivery of the paper document bearing
            an original written signature.

    GIFT BAN

    By Executive Order 24, issued by Governor Perdue, and NCGS 133-32, it is unlawful for any
    vendor or contractor (i.e. architect, bidder, contractor, construction manager, design professional,
    engineer, landlord, offeror, seller, subcontractor, supplier, or vendor), to make gifts or to give
    favors to any State employee of the Governor’s Cabinet Agencies (i.e. Administration,
    Commerce, Environmental Quality, Health and Human Services, Information Technology, Military
    and Veterans Affairs, Natural and Cultural Resources, Public Safety, Revenue, Transportation,
    and the Office of the Governor).


20. SUNSET PROVISION

    All terms and conditions of this Agreement are dependent upon, and subject to, the allocation of
    funds for the purpose set forth in the Agreement and the Agreement shall automatically terminate
    if funds cease to be available.

IT IS UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED that the approval of the Project by the Department is subject to
the conditions of this Agreement, and that no expenditures of funds on the part of the Department will
be made until the terms of this Agreement have been complied with on the part of the Municipality.



Agreement ID # 13616                               18


                                     SIGNATURE PAGE

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed the day and year heretofore set out, on
the part of the Department and the Municipality by authority duly given.

                                        (DOCUSIGN ONLY)

                                                     TOWN OF MAYODAN

                                                     Authorized Signer: ______________________

                                                                  Melody Shuler
                                                     Print Name: ___________________________

                                                             Town Manager
                                                     Title: _________________________________

                                                     Date Signed: __________________________

                                If applicable, this Agreement has been pre-audited in the manner
                                required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act:

Fed Tax ID No: ___________________________           Finance Signer: ________________________

Remittance Address:                                  Print Name: ___________________________

________________________________________             Title: _________________________________

________________________________________             Date Signed: __________________________




                                                     DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                                                     By: __________________________________

                                                     Print Name: ___________________________

                                                     Title: _________________________________

                                                     Date: ________________________________




 APPROVED BY BOARD OF TRANSPORTATION ITEM O:                                           (DATE)


Agreement ID # 13616                           19


                                     SIGNATURE PAGE

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed the day and year heretofore set out, on
the part of the Department and the Municipality by authority duly given.

                                                     (INK SIGNATURES)

                                                     TOWN OF MAYODAN

Attest:                                              Authorized Signer: ______________________

By: _____________________________________            Print Name: ___________________________

Title: ____________________________________          Title: _________________________________

                                                     Date Signed: __________________________

                                If applicable, this Agreement has been pre-audited in the manner
                                required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act:

Fed Tax ID No: ___________________________           Finance Signer: ________________________

Remittance Address:                                  Print Name: ___________________________

________________________________________             Title: _________________________________

________________________________________             Date Signed: __________________________

                                                     (DOCUSIGN)

                                                     DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                                                     By: __________________________________

                                                     Print Name: ___________________________

                                                     Title: _________________________________

                                                     Date: ________________________________




 APPROVED BY BOARD OF TRANSPORTATION ITEM O:                                           (DATE)

Agreement ID # 13616                           20


                                 AGENDA ITEM COVER

Item for Agenda:   Interlocal Agreement with the City of Eden for Emergency Wastewater
                   Maintenance Services

Placement on       Consent Agenda
Agenda:

Presenter:         Melody Shuler, Town Manager

Description of     Background
Agenda Item or     The Town of Mayodan operates its wastewater treatment plant (WWTP)
Other Pertinent    at 293 Cardwell Road in accordance with its North Carolina NPDES
Information for    permit. Following the Town’s exit from its contract with Veolia, the Town
Council:           hired a full-time Operator in Responsible Charge (ORC) to run the plant.
                   A second WWTP position has been posted since May 1st to help build
                   out the Town’s in-house operations staff. While the Town transitions to
                   fully staffing the plant, staff identified the need for a formal backup
                   arrangement for emergency maintenance support to ensure continued
                   NPDES compliance in the event the Town’s own staff cannot address an
                   issue.
                   Staff have negotiated an Interlocal Contract Agreement with the City of
                   Eden, which operates its own wastewater treatment plant and maintains
                   full-time staff trained to NPDES standards. The Agreement, authorized
                   pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. §§ 160A-Article 20 and 160A-461, is limited
                   to emergency maintenance assistance. The City of Eden acts as an
                   independent contractor responding to discrete maintenance requests on
                   an as-available basis.
                   Key terms of the Agreement include:
                   • Scope: The City of Eden will furnish labor, materials, transportation,
                   tools, equipment, and supervision necessary to perform requested
                   emergency maintenance work.
                   • Availability: Assistance is provided only when, in the City’s judgment,
                   its own staffing and operational needs allow; City of Eden’s own
                   scheduling and repairs take priority, and the City bears no liability for
                   requests it is unable to fulfill.
                   • Compensation: The Town will pay the City based on established
                   personnel, vehicle, mileage, and material rates, plus a 25%
                   administrative fee, invoiced within 30 days of completed work.
                   • Insurance and Indemnification: City personnel performing work under
                   the Agreement remain covered by the City of Eden’s Workers’
                   Compensation coverage, and the Town agrees to indemnify and hold the
                   City harmless from claims arising out of services performed on the
                   Town’s behalf.
                   • Duration and Termination: The Agreement remains in effect until either
                   party provides 30 days’ written notice of termination or the parties
                   mutually agree to end it.


Staff note that this Agreement provides emergency maintenance
support. The City of Eden’s obligation to respond is expressly
conditioned on its own staffing and operational availability.
Requested Action
Council is requested to approve the Interlocal Contract Agreement with
the City of Eden for Emergency Wastewater Maintenance Services and
authorize the Town Manager to execute the Agreement on behalf of the
Town.


© Copyright Envision SBS. 2007. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States & Canada and. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY
PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT
IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.



                   INTERLOCAL CONTRACT AGREEMENT FOR
                    WASTEWATER MAINTENANCE SERVICES

This Contract Agreement (the "Agreement") is made and effective this June 16, 2026:


BETWEEN:                          The Town of Mayodan, (the “Town"), a municipality with offices located at:

                                  210 W Main St
                                  Mayodan, NC 27027


AND:                              The City of Eden (the “City"), an individual with a mailing
                                  address as following:

                                  PO Box 70
                                  Eden, NC 27289


WHEREAS the Town of Mayodan operates the wastewater treatment plant located at 293 Cardwell Road
in Mayodan, North Carolina as required by the North Carolina NPDES permit requirements;

WHEREAS, the City of Eden operates its own wastewater treatment plant at Mebane Bridge Road in
Eden, NC 27288 and has all required NPDES permits;

WHEREAS, the CITY maintains full-time staff specially trained and dedicated to its own North Carolina
NPDES permit requirements; and

WHEREAS the Town of Mayodan desires to retain the City of Eden to perform contract emergency
maintenance duties as required by the North Carolina NPDES permit requirements;

WHEREAS, pursuant to North Carolina General Statute 160A-Article 20, the CITY and the TOWN by
action of its governing body are authorized to make provisions for a joint undertaking for the assistance of
maintenance duties provided and received by the Parties, hereto; and

WHEREAS, the Parties, pursuant to North Carolina General Statute 160A-46l have agreed to enter into
this interlocal agreement to assist in such undertaking in the manner provided for herein; and

NOW THEREFORE the Town of Mayodan and the Ctiy of Eden agree as follows:


1. CONTRACT WORK

Contractor shall be employed as an independent contractor and shall provide and furnish all labor,
materials, transportation, tools, supplies, equipment, services, supervision, and administration necessary
for the proper and complete performance and acceptance of the designated portions of the class,
hereinafter "the Contract Work".

2. CONTRACTOR PRICE

In consideration of Contractor's performance of this Contract, and at the times and subject to the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth, the Town of Mayodan shall pay to Contractor the amounts
determined based on the below listed rates and fees. Said contract price is dependent upon the

                                                            Page 1 of 3


© Copyright Envision SBS. 2007. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States & Canada and. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY
PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT
IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.


conditions set forth in this agreement. Should said conditions not be met, the contract amount shall be
modified accordingly.
                                                                   example
Personnel                                    $45/hr/Person                                 2 people, 2 hours - $180
1 service truck                              $46.29/trip      optional                     ---
1 cargo van                                  $35.13/trip      optional                     $35.13
Mileage                                      $0.725/mile                                   32 miles - $23.20
Material                                     cost                                          ---
25% Administrative Fee                       ----------------                              $59.58 for a total of $297.91


3. SCHEDULE OF PAYMENT

     Within 30 days following completion of all Contractor Work included in this agreement, Contractor
     shall submit an itemized invoice to the Town of Mayodan along with all reimbursable receipts.
     Itemized invoice shall include the following items:

           •     Hours of Personnel responding to request
           •     Type of Vehicle, Number of trips to WWTP, and total mileage
           •     Itemized receipt for any unexpected or pre-approved expense necessary for repair

4. COMMUNICATION AND NOTICE

           a. All communications between Contractor and the Town of Mayodan, shall be via Melody
              Shuler and Melinda Ward.

           b. Contractor shall be deemed to have received notice of a fact, request, order, or demand
              when Contractor is notified, either orally or in writing, or 10 days after written notice is sent by
              registered or certified mail addressed to Contractor's last known place of business, whichever
              is sooner.

           c.    Town of Mayodan shall be deemed to have received notice of a fact, request, or demand 10
                 days after written notice is sent by registered or certified mail addressed to the following
                 address:

                210 W Main St
                Mayodan, NC 27027

5.    REQUEST FOR WORK AND AVAILABILITY

           a. Upon receipt of request from the Town of Mayodan, the Contractor shall evaluate the scope
              of work requested and its own availability and ability to perform said request. City of Eden
              scheduling and work shall be a priority and assistance under this Agreement shall only be
              provided when in the opinion of the Contractor, the City of Eden is not short-handed or
              involved in a City of Eden repair.

           b. Parties agree that City of Eden shall have no liability for any emergency maintenance issues
              that it cannot respond to pursuant to the above section.


6. INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION

           a. Any City employee working for Town of Mayodan pursuant to this Agreement shall be
              covered under the City of Eden Workers’ Compensation pursuant to its City of Eden policies.


                                                            Page 2 of 3


© Copyright Envision SBS. 2007. All rights reserved. Protected by the copyright laws of the United States & Canada and. IT IS ILLEGAL AND STRICTLY
PROHIBITED TO DISTRIBUTE, PUBLISH, OFFER FOR SALE, LICENSE OR SUBLICENSE, GIVE OR DISCLOSE TO ANY OTHER PARTY, THIS PRODUCT
IN HARD COPY OR DIGITAL FORM. ALL OFFENDERS WILL BE SUED IN A COURT OF LAW.


           b. Should any claims arise out of the services provided by the CITY under this agreement, the
              TOWN agrees to indemnify and hold the CITY, its employees, agents and contractors
              harmless from any and all claims for liability, loss, injury, damages to persons or property,
              costs or attorney’s fees resulting from any action brought against the City, its employees,
              agents, contractors and Commissioners arising as a result of these services performed on
              behalf of the TOWN that are the subject matter of this Agreement.


7. GOVERNING LAW AND REQUIRED INSTRUCTION

           a. The validity, interpretation, and performance of this Contract shall be governed by the laws of
              North Carolina.

           b. Titles, captions, or headings to any provision, article, etc., shall not limit the full contents of
              the same. These articles have the full force and effect as if no titles existed.

           c.    If any term or provision of this Contract is determined to be invalid, it shall not affect the
                 validity and enforcement of the remaining terms and provisions of this Contract.

           d. This contract shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the respective successors,
              assigns, representatives, and heirs of the parties herein.

8. AMENDMENT

This Contract shall only be amended or modified by written document executed by authorized
representatives of the Town of Mayodan and Contractor.

9. DURATION

That this Agreement shall continue until such time as either the TOWN or CITY resolves to discontinue
the Agreement and presents thirty days (30) written notice to the other party of said termination or upon
mutual agreement of both parties.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first
above written.



ATTEST:                                                                         CITY OF EDEN

_________________________________                                               __________________________________

Clerk                                                                           Mayor




ATTEST:                                                                         TOWN OF MAYODAN




________________________________                                     __________________________________

Clerk                                                                           Mayor

                                                            Page 3 of 3


                                   AGENDA ITEM COVER

Item for Agenda:   Ordinance Amendment

Placement on
Agenda:

Presenter:         Chief Tim Knight

Description of     Background:
Agenda Item or     As part of the Town's ongoing commitment to improving traffic safety and enhancing
Other Pertinent    the quality of life in residential neighborhoods, the Board previously approved the
Information for    reduction of the speed limit on all Town-maintained streets from 35 miles per hour to 25
Council:           miles per hour. This change is intended to promote safer travel conditions for motorists,
                   pedestrians, and cyclists while providing a more consistent speed limit throughout
                   Town-maintained roadways. The proposed ordinance amendment formalizes the Board's
                   action and authorizes implementation through appropriate signage and public
                   notification.


                   Requested Action:
                   Approve the ordinance amendment establishing a 25 miles per hour speed limit on all
                   Town-maintained streets within the Town of Mayodan and authorize staff to implement
                   the necessary signage and public notification.


                                          PART II - CODE OF ORDINANCES
                                        Chapter 26 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
                                         ARTICLE V. SPEED REGULATIONS



ARTICLE V. SPEED REGULATIONS

Sec. 26-118. General.

    Except as otherwise provided in this article, it shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in
excess of 25 miles per hour inside the corporate limits of the town.

(Code 1975, § 7.61)

Sec. 26-119. Exceptions.

(a) It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds listed below upon the
    streets or portions of streets of the state highway system listed in each designated
    appendix hereby made a part hereof:

      (1) Twenty miles per hour (appendix A, section 115).

      (2) Twenty-five miles per hour (appendix A, section 116).

      (3) Thirty miles per hour (appendix A, section 117).

      (4) Forty miles per hour (appendix A, section 118).

      (5) Forty-five miles per hour (appendix A, section 119).

      (6) Fifty miles per hour (appendix A, section 120).

      (7) Fifty-five miles per hour (appendix A, section 121).

(b) It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds listed below upon the
    streets or portions of the streets not part of the state highway system, listed in each
    designated appendix, hereby made a part hereof:

      (1) Twenty miles per hour (appendix A, section 122).

      (2) Twenty-five miles per hour (appendix A, section 123).

      (3) Thirty miles per hour (appendix A, section 124).

      (4) Forty miles per hour (appendix A, section 125).

Mayodan, North Carolina, Code of Ordinances                                 Created: 2025-07-18 12:44:15 [EST]

(Supp. No. 4)

                                                   Page 1 of 9


      (5) Forty-five miles per hour (appendix A, section 126).

      (6) Fifty miles per hour (appendix A, section 127).

      (7) Fifty-five miles per hour (appendix A, section 128).

(Code 1975, § 7.62)

Secs. 26-120—26-136. Reserved.




                                                                 Created: 2025-07-18 12:44:15 [EST]
(Supp. No. 4)

                                             Page 2 of 9


                                              PART II - CODE OF ORDINANCES
                                                   Appendix A TRAFFIC



Sec. 26-119. Exceptions.

(a) It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds listed below upon the
    streets or portions of streets of the state highway system listed in each designated
    appendix hereby made a part hereof:

      (1) Twenty miles per hour (appendix A, section 115).

      (2) Twenty-five miles per hour (appendix A, section 116).

      (3) Thirty miles per hour (appendix A, section 117).

      (4) Forty miles per hour (appendix A, section 118).

      (5) Forty-five miles per hour (appendix A, section 119).

      (6) Fifty miles per hour (appendix A, section 120).

      (7) Fifty-five miles per hour (appendix A, section 121).

(b) It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds listed below upon the
    streets or portions of the streets not part of the state highway system, listed in each
    designated appendix, hereby made a part hereof:

      (1) Twenty miles per hour (appendix A, section 122).

      (2) Twenty-five miles per hour (appendix A, section 123).

      (3) Thirty miles per hour (appendix A, section 124).

      (4) Forty miles per hour (appendix A, section 125).

      (5) Forty-five miles per hour (appendix A, section 126).

      (6) Fifty miles per hour (appendix A, section 127).

      (7) Fifty-five miles per hour (appendix A, section 128).

(Code 1975, § 7.62)



Mayodan, North Carolina, Code of Ordinances                                  Created: 2025-07-18 12:44:20 [EST]

(Supp. No. 4)

                                                       Page 3 of 9


                                              PART II - CODE OF ORDINANCES
                                                   Appendix A TRAFFIC




Appendix A TRAFFIC 1

Sec. 101.

      Parking prohibited at all times on the following streets (See Section 7.173 [26-450]):

      .

      (3) On the South side of Garfield Street and on the West side of Hanna Street for a
          distance of 100 ft. from the intersection of the two said streets.

      (4) On the south side of W. Jackson Street from N. 7th Avenue running west for
          seventy (70) feet; on the south side of W. Jackson Street from N. 7th Avenue
          running east for 70 feet; on the north side of W. Jackson Street from N. 7th Avenue
          running west for 20 feet; on the north side of W. Jackson Street from N. 7th
          Avenue running east for 20 feet; on the West side of North 7th Avenue from W.
          Jackson Street running north for 20 feet.

      (5) On the north side of Wray Street in the public access "turn-around" paved area
          between 303 and 307 Wray Street.

(Ord. of 7-1-1971; Ord. of 4-13-1987; Ord. of 7-8-2013)

Sec. 103.

    Parking limited to two hours between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. on any day
except Sundays and public holidays within the district or upon any of the streets as follows
(See Section 7.174 [26-451]):

     Parking limited to two hours between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any day
except Sundays and public holidays within the district or upon any of the streets as follows
(Effective 2-5-1998)




Editor's note(s)—Printed herein is Appendix I, which has been carried over from the 1975 Code and renamed
1

     Appendix A. Amendments to the appendix are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended
     provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original.
     Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. Additions made for
     clarity are indicated by brackets.


Mayodan, North Carolina, Code of Ordinances                                           Created: 2025-07-18 12:44:20 [EST]

(Supp. No. 4)

                                                       Page 4 of 9


           1. On 2nd Avenue from Main Street to Jefferson Street and on Main Street from 2nd
              Avenue to 3rd Avenue and from 2nd Avenue to the alley 150 feet east of 2nd
              Avenue (Effective 6-8-2015).
           2. On Main Street from 3rd Avenue to 4th Avenue (Effective 11-13-1989, repealed
              from ordinance 2-5-1998).

(Ord. of 2-5-1998; Amd. of 6-8-2015)

Sec. 104.

    Parking limited to one hour between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on any day
except Sundays and public holidays within the district or upon any of the streets as follows
(See Section 7.174 [26-451]):

      1.        On Washington Street north side from 2nd Avenue to a distance of 100 feet
                (Effective 7-1-1971).

(Ord. of 7-1-1971)

Sec. 105.

      Parking limited to ten minutes (See section 7.174 [26-451]).

(Ord. of 2-16-1956)



Sec. 108.

      Through streets (See section 7.91 [26-188]).

Sec. 109.

      Intersections at which "stop" is required before entering (See section 7.93 [26-190]).

Sec. 110.

      One-way streets (See section 7.83 [26-166, 26-167]).




                                                                          Created: 2025-07-18 12:44:19 [EST]
(Supp. No. 4)

                                               Page 5 of 9


Sec. 111.

    Left turns to be made to the left of the center at the following intersections (See
section 7.73 [26-139]).

Sec. 112.

      No left turns at the following intersections (See section 7.73 [26-139]).

Sec. 113.

      No right turns at the following intersections (See section 7.73 [26-139]).

Sec. 114.

      No complete or "U" turns at the following intersections (See section 7.73 [26-139]).

Sec. 115.

    Twenty (20) mile per hour speed limit on the following streets (See Section 7.62(1) [26-
119(a)]).

Sec. 116.

     Twenty-five (25) mile per hour speed limit on the following streets (See Section 7.62(2)
[26-119(b)]):

      Main Street from 4th Avenue eastward to Business Hwy 220 (Second Avenue).

Sec. 117.

    Thirty mile per hour speed limit on the following streets (See section 7.62(3) [26-
115(c)]).

Sec. 118.

    Forty mile per hour speed limit on the following streets (See section 7.62(4) [26-
115(d)]).




                                                                         Created: 2025-07-18 12:44:20 [EST]
(Supp. No. 4)

                                            Page 6 of 9


Sec. 119.

    Forty-five mile per hour speed limit on the following streets (See section 7.62(5) [26-
115(e)]).

Sec. 120.

      Fifty mile per hour speed limit on the following streets (See section 7.62(6) [26-115(f)]).

Sec. 121.

    Fifty-five mile per hour speed limit on the following streets (See section 7.62(7) [26-
115(g)]).

Sec. 122.

    Twenty mile per hour speed limit on the following streets (See section 7.62(8) [26-
115(h)].

Sec. 123.

     Twenty-five (25) mile per hour speed limit on the following streets (See section 7.62(9)
[26-115(i)]):

      (1) Taft Street (3-9-1998).

      (2) Garfield Street (3-9-1998).

      (3) Hanna Street (3-9-1998).

(Amd. of 3-9-1998)

Sec. 124.

    Thirty (30) mile per hour speed limit on the following streets (See section 7.62(10) [26-
115(j)]).

Sec. 125.

    Forty mile per hour speed limit on the following streets (See section 7.62(11) [26-
115(k)]).



                                                                          Created: 2025-07-18 12:44:20 [EST]
(Supp. No. 4)

                                            Page 7 of 9


Sec. 126.

    Forty-five mile per hour speed limit on the following streets (See section 7.62(12) [26-
115(l)]).

Sec. 127.

    Fifty mile per hour speed limit on the following streets (See section 7.62(13) [26-
115(m)]).

Sec. 128.

    Fifty-five mile per hour speed limit on the following streets (See section 7.62(14)26-
115(n)]).

Sec. 129.

    The following streets or portions thereof are designated as passenger loading and
unloading zones (See section 7.162 [26-413]).

Sec. 130.

    The following streets or portions thereof are designated as commercial loading and
unloading zones (See section 7.163 [26-414]).




                                                                       Created: 2025-07-18 12:44:20 [EST]
(Supp. No. 4)

                                          Page 8 of 9


Sec. 131.

     Parking prohibited between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. upon any of the streets
as follows (See Section 7.154 [26-451]):

      (2) North side of Washington Street from 2nd Avenue to a distance of 100 feet.

(Ord. of 7-1-1971)




                                                                     Created: 2025-07-18 12:44:20 [EST]
(Supp. No. 4)

                                          Page 9 of 9


                               AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
               THE TOWN OF MAYODAN, NORTH CAROLINA, CODE OF ORDINANCES

     WHEREAS, the Governing Board of the Town of Mayodan, North Carolina, pursuant to North
Carolina General Statute § 160A-296 (Establishment and control of streets) and North Carolina § 20-
141(e) and (f) (Speed restrictions) is given the authority to adopt and periodically amend and enforce
its ordinances relating to the use of streets and street speed limits within the jurisdiction of the Town
of Mayodan; and,

    WHEREAS, the Governing Board of the Town of Mayodan, North Carolina, has determined that
to promote the safety of its citizens and visitors and to reduce hazardous roadway conditions, the
speed limit for all vehicles operating within the corporate limits of the town should be reduced from
35 miles per hour to 25 miles per hour except as may be speciﬁcally provided in the Mayodan Code
of Ordinances; and

    WHEREAS, the Governing Board of the Town of Mayodan, North Carolina, desires to make
conforming changes in the Mayodan Code of Ordinances.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF MAYODAN, NORTH
CAROLINA, THAT THE CODE OF ORDINANCES, TOWN OF MAYODAN, NORTH CAROLINA, IS HEREBY
AMENDED AND REVISED AS FOLLOWS:

      Section 1. CHAPTER 26, TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES, ARTICLE V, SPEED REGULATIONS, is revised
and amended to read as follows:

           ARTICLE V. SPEED REGULATIONS

           Sec. 26-118. General.

                Except as otherwise provided in this article, it shall be unlawful to
           operate a vehicle in excess of 25 miles per hour inside the corporate
           limits of the town.

           (Code 1975, § 7.61)

           Section 2. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect on September 1, 2026.

Adopted this 13th day of July, 2024.


                                               ___________________________________
         (Town Seal)                                            Mayor




   ATTEST:                                               APPROVED AS TO FORM:

   _____________________________                         ___________________________
         Town Clerk                                            Town Attorney


                                  AGENDA ITEM COVER

Item for Agenda:   Initiation of Voluntary Annexation Petition ANX-001-2026 – 270 Dan
                   Valley Road (Agency Partners, LLC)

Placement on       New Business
Agenda:

Presenter:         Sarah Hopper, Town Clerk

Description of     Background
Agenda Item or
Other Pertinent    A voluntary annexation petition has been submitted by the applicant
Information for    Agency Partners, LLC (Shawn Cummings, Member/Manager), requesting
Council:           annexation of approximately 13.47 acres, parcel number 186173. The
                   property is located at 270 Dan Valley Road, contiguous to the Town's
                   corporate limits.

                   The petition was received by the Town on July 8, 2026. Pursuant to
                   N.C.G.S. §160A-31, the Town Clerk must investigate the sufficiency of
                   the petition before further annexation proceedings may take place. Upon
                   certification of sufficiency, the Town Council must fix a date for a public
                   hearing, with notice published in a newspaper having general circulation
                   in the Town at least 10 days prior to the date of the public hearing.

                   Staff recommends setting the public hearing for August 10, 2026, at 6:00
                   pm in the Town Hall Council Chambers, 210 W Main Street, Mayodan.

                   Process

                      ●   Annexation Petition – signed by each owner of real property in the
                          area, containing the address of each owner.
                      ●   Clerk Investigation – the Town Clerk investigates the sufficiency
                          of the petition and certifies the result to Council.
                      ●   Date Set – Council fixes a date for public hearing and causes
                          notice to be published at least 10 days prior.
                      ●   Public Hearing – persons resident or owning property in the area
                          described, and persons resident or owning property in the Town,
                          are given an opportunity to be heard.
                      ●   Complete – Council has authority to pass an ordinance annexing
                          the territory described in the petition.
                   Requested Action

                      ●   MOTION to approve a resolution directing the Town Clerk to
                          investigate Annexation Petition ANX-001-2026.
                   Town Clerk to verify the petition was investigated and is sufficient.
                      ●   MOTION to approve a resolution fixing the public hearing for
                          August 10, 2026, at 6:00 pm in the Town Hall Council Chambers.




RESOLUTION: RES-2026-XX




           Resolution Directing the Town Clerk to Investigate
                  Annexation Petition ANX-001-2026

WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of an area described in said petition was received
on July 8, 2026, by the Mayodan Town Council;

WHEREAS, N.C.G.S. §160A-31 provides that the sufficiency of the petition shall be investigated
by the Town Clerk before further annexation proceedings may take place; and

WHEREAS, the Town Council of Mayodan, North Carolina deems it advisable to proceed in
response to this request for annexation.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Town Council of the Town of Mayodan, North
Carolina, that the Town Clerk is hereby directed to investigate the sufficiency of the above-
described petition and to certify as soon as possible to the Town Council the results of her
investigation.


July adopted this the 13th day of July, 2026.


_________________________________
Dwight Lake, Mayor


ATTEST:


_________________________________
Sarah Hopper, Town Clerk


RESOLUTION: RES-2026-XX




                Resolution Fixing Date of Public Hearing on
                    Annexation Petition ANX-001-2026

WHEREAS, a petition requesting annexation of an area described herein has been received;

WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Mayodan, North Carolina, has by resolution
directed the Town Clerk to investigate the sufficiency of the petition; and

WHEREAS, certification by the Town Clerk as to the sufficiency of the petition has been made.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Town Council of the Town of Mayodan, North
Carolina, that:

Section 1: A public hearing on the question of annexation of the area described herein will be
held in the Town Hall Council Chambers located at 210 W Main Street, Mayodan, North
Carolina, on August 10, 2026, at 6:00 pm.

Section 2: The area proposed for annexation is described as follows: Tax Parcel Number
186173, comprising approximately 13.47 acres located at 270 Dan Valley Road, Mayodan,
North Carolina.

Section 3: Notice of the public hearing shall be published in the News & Record, a newspaper
having general circulation in the Town of Mayodan, North Carolina, at least 10 days prior to the
date of the public hearing.


July adopted this the 13th day of July, 2026.


_________________________________
Dwight Lake, Mayor


ATTEST:


_________________________________
Sarah Hopper, Town Clerk


| io TOWN OF MAYODAN
MAYODAN( == APPLICATION FOR INITIATION OF VOLUNTARY ANNEXATION

Date Submitted: 7/6/26 (wet-signature)

SECTION 1: APPLICANT INFORMATION
Applicant Name: Agency Partners, LLC

Mailing Address: 1141 Jay Lane, Graham, NC 27253
3. Phone Number: 704-467-0983
4. Email Address: skrusell@vennterra.com

—

NS

SECTION 2: PROPERTY INFORMATION
. Property Owner(s) Name: Agency Partners, LLC

2. Parcel Number: 186173
13.47

i

3. Acreage:

4. Owner Consent to Annexation] |Ye: No

270 Dan Valley Road, Mayodan, NC 27027

5. Property Physical Address:

SECTION 3: REQUIRED DOCUMENTATION
The following documentation must be submitted along with this application:

Annexation Petition Form (Completed and Signed)
Legal Description of Property (Metes and Bounds - submitted in Word)

Property Deed
Deed Book Number: 1700 Page Number: 1709 _

Survey/Map of Property

YwPyPnyr


6. List of Abutting Property Owners

SECTION 4: VESTED RIGHTS

We acknowledge that any zoning vested rights acquired pursuant to NCGS §160A-385.1 or
NCGS §153A-344.1 must be declared and identified on this petition. We further acknowledge
that failure to declare such rights on this petition shall result in a termination of vested rights
previously acquired for the property.

Vested Rights: Do you declare vested rights?

Yes| / No

SECTION 5: ACKNOWLEDGMENTS AND SIGNATURES

I/We, the undersigned applicant(s), respectfully request annexation of the above-referenced
property into the Town of Mayodan municipal limits. I/We understand that this request is subject
to verification and approval by the Town Council and affirm that all provided information is
accurate.

All property owners must sign this application.

Applicant Signature:
Shon G eA. Date: ZEA 6
Shawn Cummings, Member / Manager for Ag ers, LLC Date:

SECTION 6: FOR OFFICE USE ONLY

Date Received: 4| is) | al g

Reviewed By:
Sufficiency Determination: [ ] Sufficient [ ] Insufficient
Date of Clerk's Certification:

Town Council Meeting Date:

Council Action: [ ] Approved [ ] Denied

Date of Annexation Ordinance Adoption:

NAW WN


From an existing iron, being the Point of Beginning (POB) at Northing 970399.4382' and
Easting 1721968.0134'

Thence, S 87° 15' 39" E for a distance of 727.42 feet to an existing iron.

Thence, S 69° 15' 41" E for a distance of 475.60 feet to an existing iron.

Thence, S 04° 56' 30" W for a distance of 191.74 feet to a point on a line.

Thence, S 06° 32' 38" W for a distance of 73.31 feet to an existing iron.

Thence, N 87° 28' 57" W for a distance of 410.15 feet to an existing iron.

Thence, S 01° 18' 17" E for a distance of 177.55 feet to an existing iron.

Thence, N 87° 30' 09" W for a distance of 307.69 feet to an existing iron.

Thence, N 87° 23' 25" W for a distance of 149.35 feet to an existing iron.

Thence, N 87° 22' 44" W for a distance of 304.80 feet to a rock.

Thence N 01° 57' 44" E a distance of 592.72 feet to the Point of Beginning (POB) at

Northing 970399.4382' and Easting 1721968.0134'

Contains 13.47 acres


GENERAL NOTES:
1) COMPUTED POINTS AT ALL CORNERS UNLESS
   OTHERWISE NOTED.
2) THIS PLAT IS SUBJECT TO ANY FACTS THAT MAY BE
   DISCLOSED BY A FULL AND ACCURATE TITLE SEARCH.
3) THIS SURVEY MAY NOT SHOW ALL OF THE SETBACKS
   OR ORDINANCES AS SET FORTH BY ANY ZONING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NC
   DEPARTMENT OR ANY OTHER GOVERNING BODIES
   FOR THE SUBJECT PROPERTY.
4) THE LOCATION AND/OR EXISTENCE OF UTILITY SERVICE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RD
   LINES AND UNDERGROUND UTILITIES ON OR SERVING THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DAN VALLEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         US 311
   SUBJECT PROPERTY ARE UNKNOWN AND ARE NOT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RD
   SHOWN AS A PART OF THIS SURVEY.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SITE
5) THE PROPERTY SHOWN HEREON IS SUBJECT TO ALL
   EASEMENTS OF RECORD AFFECTING THE SAME.
6) ALL BEARINGS, DISTANCES AND ACREAGE SHOWN ON
   THIS PLAT WERE TAKEN FROM DEEDS, PLATS, AND SURVEYS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCALE: 1" = 2000'
                                                                                        PARCEL NUMBER: 122826                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SITE COORDINATES: 36.41°, -79.94°
                                                                                  OWNER: DIVERSE PROPERTY GROUP LLC                            PARCEL NUMBER: 122835
                                                                                       DEED BOOK: 1679 PG: 2337                           OWNER: ROBESON ASSISTED LIVING
                                                                                              ZONE: R6/MY                                     DEED BOOK: 1314 PG: 2390
                                                                                      EXISTING USE: VACANT LOT                                       ZONE: C2/MY
                                                                                                                                      EXISTING USE: ASSISTED LIVING COMMUNITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATION
                                      POB
                           N: 970399.4382'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I, JEFFREY H. RUDD, CERTIFY THAT THIS PLAT WAS DRAWN
                          E: 1721968.0134'                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARCEL NUMBER: 122836
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OWNER: MARTIN KRISTOPHER MICHAEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UNDER MY SUPERVISION FROM FIELD SURVEYS, COMPILED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DEED BOOK: 1701 PG: 0226

                                                                                                                                                        S87° 15' 39"E 727.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ZONE: RP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DEEDS, AND PLATS FOR THE PURPOSE OF AN ANNEXATION
                                                                            EIP                                                                                                                                                                                EXISTING USE: SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MAP FOR THE TOWN OF MAYODAN; AND THAT THE PLAT IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH G.S. 47-30 AS AMENDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AND SPECIFICALLY SECTION (J) FOR AREAS TO BE ANNEXED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPERTY LINE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THIS SURVEY IS OF AN EXISTING PARCEL OF LAND AND DOES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S69
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  °    15'                        PARCEL NUMBER: 180783
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NOT CREATE A NEW STREET OR CHANGE AN EXISTING
                              PROPERTY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                41"               OWNER: MARTIN KRISTOPHER MICHAEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E   475            DEED BOOK: 1701 PG: 0226
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STREET.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .60'               ZONE: RA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXISTING USE: VACANT LOT




     GRID NORTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WITNESS MY HAND AND SEAL THIS ___25_____DAY OF
     NC-RTK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        __NOVEMBER______________, 2025.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C A RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    F E S I ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R             O                A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ____________________________________________                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             191.74'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P                         L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JEFFREY H. RUDD                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SEAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                              SUBJECT PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR           L-4009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                            PARCEL NUMBER: 186173
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L-4009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                         OWNER: AGENCY PARTNERS, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S4° 56' 30"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                           DEED BOOK: 1700 PG: 1709
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                  ZONE: RA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ND            YO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                     PARCEL NUMBER: 180363
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       URVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FF          S                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D


                                                     N1° 57' 44"E 592.72'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL AREA OF ANNEXATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REY . RU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                 13.47 ACRES±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                              0.021037 SQ MILES±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




               OWNER: WATKINS FRANCES LOUISE W L/E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                        WATKINS BILLY T L/E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S6° 32' 38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                     DEED BOOK: 1540 PG: 1475
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "W 73.31'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                           ZONE: R20MY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DAN VALLEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EIP
                    EXISTING USE: VACANT LOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N87° 28' 57"W 410.15'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S1° 18' 17"E 177.55'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N/F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CLYDE AND BILLIE GANN LIVING TRUST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D.B. 7864, P.G. 2635
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PID 119897
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ZONE AG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING USE: SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OHW




                                                                       ROCK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CP COMPUTED POINT
                                                                                                                                                 EIP
                                                                                             N87° 22' 44"W 304.80'                                                                 EIP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING IRON
                                                                                                                                                       N87° 23' 25"W 149.35'                                                      EIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                   N87° 30' 09"W 307.69'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING STONE / ROCK

                                                                       PARCEL NUMBER: 183852
                                                                      OWNER: WILBORNE JOHN R
                                                                       DEED BOOK: 1618 PG: 2263                                                    PARCEL NUMBER: 122734
                                                                             ZONE: RA/RP                        PARCEL NUMBER: 183851
                                                                                                              OWNER: WILBORNE JOHN R             OWNER: GOGA CAROL ELAINE                        PARCEL NUMBER: 122739
                                                                      EXISTING USE: VACANT LOT                                                    DEED BOOK: 1635 PG: 1688                      OWNER: WALL ROBIN SMITH
                                                                                                               DEED BOOK: 1635 PG: 1691
                                                                                                                     ZONE: RA/RP                         ZONE: RA/RP                            DEED BOOK: 1212 PG: 0835
                                                                                                                                           EXISTING USE: SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE                       ZONE: RA/RP
                                                                                                             EXISTING USE: SINGLE FAMILY
                                                                                                                     RESIDENCE                                                           EXISTING USE: SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OWNER:                            SURVEYED AND MAPPED FOR THE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AGENCY PARTNERS, LLC              TOWN OF MAYODAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1141 JAY LANE                     210 WEST MAIN STREET,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GRAHAM, NC 27253                  MAYODAN, N.C. 27027




                                                                                                  RI
                                                                                                       VE
                                                                                                            RR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FINAL PLAT
                                                                                                                 OA
                                                                                                                    D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SATELLITE ANNEXATION FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THE TOWN OF MAYODAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DAN VALLEY ROAD PARCEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAYO TOWNSHIP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ROCKINGHAM COUNTY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11/25/25                 100'
