                        January 6, 2026
              Seward County Board of Commissioners

State of Nebraska)
County of Seward) ss.

A regular meeting of the Seward County Board of Commissioners was convened in open
and public session at 8:30 a.m. on January 6, 2026 in the Commissioner’s room at the
Seward County Courthouse. Notice of the meeting was posted on the Courthouse
bulletin board, on the Commissioner’s Room door, on the Seward County website:
sewardcountyne.gov and published in the Seward County Independent and the Milford
Times. The agenda for all meetings is kept continually current and is available for public
inspection at the County Clerk’s Office during normal business hours. The agenda is
held open until one business day prior to the meeting for appearance before the Board.
The Board of Commissioners has the right to modify the agenda to include items of an
emergency nature only at such public meeting.

The Seward County Board of Commissioners convened on January 6, 2026 at 8:30
a.m.
            Present:    Chairperson: Misty Ahmic
                        Members: Darrell Zabrocki, Ken Schmieding
                        County Clerk: Brandy Johnson
            Absent:     Members: Raegan Hain, Scott Pekarek

The Chairperson noted that the public meeting information is posted as required by
law and available for public distribution if requested.

The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

Moved by Zabrocki and seconded by Schmieding to approve the minutes of December
30, 2025.
Affirmative Vote: Zabrocki, Schmieding, Ahmic                  Motion Carried

Moved by Zabrocki and seconded by Schmieding to approve the consent agenda
consisting of:
    a. County Clerk Fee Report for December 2025 - $37,679.78
    b. District Court Fee Report for December 2025 - $2,343.80
Affirmative Vote: Zabrocki, Schmieding, Ahmic                  Motion Carried

Jonathan Jank, Executive Director of Seward County Chamber & Development
Partnership (SCCDP), updated the Commissioners on activities of the organization.

Emily Manning and Ann Dobesh, Extension Office employees, Wendy Elston, County
Attorney, Jon Regnier, Highway Superintendent, and Brandy Johnson, County Clerk,
updated the Commissioners on activities of their departments.

Commissioner Reports:

Commissioner Schmieding reported he attended a City of Seward Parks and Recreation
Board meeting, will attend an Extension Board Meeting, a Tree Board meeting, a
Problem Solving Court graduation in York and a Blue Valley Community Action (BVCA)
meeting.

Commissioner Ahmic reported she worked in the Zoning office, attended a retirement
reception for the Emergency Management Director, met with a member of Mutual Aid &
Rural Fire about the Community Safety Action Plan (CSAP), had a meeting with Marvin
Planning, obtained a wireless printer for the Commissioner room, worked on
information for the resolutions on today’s agenda, worked with legal for guidance on
by-laws for Solid Waste Management.
Commissioner Zabrocki reported he attended a retirement reception for the Emergency
Management Director, met with the Public Transit Director, and checked abandoned
cemeteries and county roads.

Ahmic led discussion on the Moratorium Extension on Renewable Energy. This is an
extension of the Moratorium that was imposed on certain renewable energy projects by
the Board on August 1, 2023.

Moved by Zabrocki and seconded by Schmieding to adopt Resolution No. 3909 in regard
to extending the moratorium on Renewable Energy for six months from the date of this
resolution.
                              Resolution # 3909 of the
                       Seward County Board of Commissioners

      WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Seward County, Nebraska
      (“Board”), recognizes the significance of renewable energy in advancing
      environmental sustainability and reducing carbon emissions;

      WHEREAS, the authority to make, adopt, amend, extend, and implement
      county zoning regulations is conferred upon the County Board of
      Commissioners in each county pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. §23-114;

      WHEREAS, the current zoning regulations in Seward County do not
      contain regulations governing renewable energy projects;

      WHEREAS, on August 1, 2023, the Board passed Resolution 3767, which
      imposed a moratorium on certain renewable energy projects until such
      time as permanent regulations could be adopted that govern those
      projects;

      WHEREAS, proposed Seward County zoning regulations have been
      drafted; however, have not yet been formally adopted;

      WHEREAS, the proposed zoning regulations include regulations governing
      renewable energy projects;

      WHEREAS, it is imperative to ensure responsible and sustainable
      development of commercial renewable energy projects that align with the
      existing community infrastructure and comprehensive plan;

      WHEREAS, it is anticipated that new zoning regulations will be adopted
      before the commencement of any commercial projects currently in
      development;

      WHEREAS, in anticipation of the adoption of new zoning regulations
      governing commercial renewable energy systems, the continuation or
      renewal of the prior temporary moratorium, if it has expired by operation
      of law, is necessary to ensure that all future renewable energy system
      projects comply with the forthcoming regulations.

      WHEREAS, failure to continue or renew the temporary moratorium on
      commercial renewable energy projects until such time as the new zoning
      regulations are adopted could result in irreparable harm to Seward County
      and its resources;

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED the temporary moratorium on
      commercial renewable energy projects shall be continued or renewed,
      effective immediately, upon the following in Seward County:
             1. Any solar conversion system consisting of a series of solar
             modules and equipment connected together, with a nameplate
             capacity of equal to or greater than 500kW alternating current, in
             order to commercially supply the converted energy to a community
             and/or power grid; or

             2. Any wind energy conversion system under common or
             aggregated ownership or operating control that includes
             substations, MET towers, cables/wires and other building
             accessories, whose main purpose is to supply electricity to off-site
             customers; or

             3. Any other renewable energy conversion system designed to
             commercially supply converted energy to any community, power
             grid, or off-site customers.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the temporary
      moratorium shall remain in effect for a period of six (6) months from the
      date of this resolution, or until new zoning regulations governing
      commercial renewable energy systems are formally adopted, published,
      and become legally binding within Seward County, whichever occurs first,
      at which time the moratorium shall automatically expire unless extended
      by separate resolution of the Board.

      Dated this 6th day of January 2026.
      Moved by: Zabrocki         Seconded by: Schmieding
      Ayes: Ken Schmieding, Darrell J. Zabrocki, Misty Ahmic, Chair of the Board
      Attest: Brandy M. Johnson, Seward County Clerk

Affirmative Vote: Zabrocki, Schmieding, Ahmic                        Motion Carried

Elston led discussion regarding a resolution to dissolve the interlocal agreement with
York County for Emergency Management Services and waive the notice requirement.
Seward County will no longer be participating in the interlocal agreement with York
County for an Emergency Management Director after the retirement of Gary Petersen.

Moved by Zabrocki and seconded by Schmieding to adopt Resolution No. 3910 in regard
to dissolving the Interlocal Agreement with York County for Emergency Management
Services and Waive the Notice Requirement.
                                   Resolution #3910
       WHEREAS, the Seward County Board entered into an Interlocal Agreement with
York County Board for Joint Emergency Management Services, hereinafter referred to
as the “Interlocal”.
      WHEREAS, due to the retirement of the current Emergency Manager, Seward
and York Counties have decided that it is in the best interests of each county to
terminate the Interlocal Agreement.
       WHEREAS, termination of the Interlocal is addressed in the Interlocal Agreement.
Specifically, provision #23 in the Interlocal states “This Agreement may be terminated
by either party giving to the other party written notice of its intention to terminate at
least 90 days prior to the proposed date of termination.”
       WHEREAS, it has been agreed upon by Seward and York Counties to terminate
the Interlocal and waive any notice period.
       THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT, Seward County, a participant of the
Interlocal consents to termination of the Interlocal Agreement effective upon full
execution of this Resolution and waives any notice period.
      THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT, York County, a participant of the Interlocal
consents to termination of the Interlocal Agreement effective upon full execution of this
Resolution and waives any notice period.
       FURTHER, all property paid for by each county individually shall be the property
of each county that paid for the property. Any property purchased jointly by the
Emergency Manager shall be distributed equitably upon a written separate agreement.
      FOR SEWARD COUNTY:

      Ayes: Ken Schmieding, Darrell J. Zabrocki, Misty Ahmic, Chair of the Board
      Dated this 6th day of January 2026.
      Attest: Brandy M. Johnson, Seward County Clerk

      FOR YORK COUNTY:

      *(Awaiting signatures from York County)

Affirmative Vote: Zabrocki, Schmieding, Ahmic                       Motion Carried

The Commissioners recessed at 9:09 a.m.
The Commissioners reconvened at 9:15 a.m.

Moved by Zabrocki and seconded by Schmieding to open bids for a fence at the Missile
Base.
Affirmative Vote: Zabrocki, Schmieding, Ahmic                   Motion Carried

Bids were received from:
J&M Fencing, American Fence Company of Lincoln, and Outback Fence Co., LLC.

The Commissioners recessed at 9:22 a.m.
The Commissioners reconvened at 9:30 a.m.

Elston and Marilyn Hladky, Assessor, were present for the discussion regarding salaries
for elected officials the 2027 – 2030 term. The Nebraska Association of County Officials
(NACO) salary study from October 2025 recommended a minimum base salary of 160%
of the Clerk, Treasurer, Clerk of District Court and Assessor salaries for the County
Attorney. Elston proposed that the County Attorney salary to be set at 165% of the
Clerk, Treasurer, Clerk of District Court and Assessor salaries. She noted that she
performs duties above and beyond the statutory requirements for the County Attorney,
including child support duties for which the county receives a 66% reimbursement from
the state. There was a discussion regarding the recommendation for Assessors, noting
that extra compensation should be considered if the assessor or another elected official
or county employee is performing the county’s appraisal. There was a brief discussion
regarding the various factors for recommendations for different departments.

Moved by Zabrocki and seconded by Schmieding to adopt Resolution No. 3911 in regard
to setting the salaries for Elected Officials for the 2027-2030 term.

             WHEREAS, the laws of the State of Nebraska provide that the
      salaries of elected officials be fixed by the County Board prior to
      January 15th of the year in which a General Election will be held for the
      respective offices; and

            WHEREAS, all elected county officials shall be included on an
      equal basis with other County Employees as to the provisions and
      benefits of any group insurance, retirement, life insurance or any other
      benefits adopted by the County Board of Commissioners; and

            WHEREAS, salary increases to accommodate cost of living
      increases should be granted such elected officials on an annual basis;
      and
      WHEREAS, the Nebraska Association of County Officials
completed a salary study and published "2027-2030 Salary Guidelines
for County Officials" in October of 2025; and

       WHEREAS, said salary study states that the minimum base salary
recommendation should be the least amount acceptable to provide a
livable income for a person maintaining the duties of the county office;
and

     WHEREAS, said salary study recommends the Attorney
minimum salary to be 160% of the minimum base salary, Sheriff
minimum salary to be 125% of the minimum base salary, and County
Commissioner minimum salary to be 50% of the minimum base salary.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Seward County
Board of Commissioners, that the following salaries for the respective
offices be established for the term of office encompassing the calendar
years of 2027, 2028, 2029, and 2030 for all elected officials who are
subject to election in 2026 and being sworn into office in 2027; and
2027 and 2028 for the office of County Commissioner.

        Pursuant to the terms of Neb. Rev. Stat. §23-1114(4), salary for
the office of County Commissioner shall not be increased by more than
the cumulative change in the unadjusted Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers published by the Federal Bureau for Labor Statistics
for the period since the last salary increase plus one percent. No such
salary shall be increased more than once every two fiscal years unless
first placed on the ballot at the next statewide general election
pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. §23-1114(4)(b). The annual salary of the
office of County Commissioners is hereby established as follows:

       Calendar years 2027 and 2028: 44% of the minimum base
salary for 2027

       The annual salary of the office of Attorney is hereby established
at 162.5% of the minimum base salary for the calendar years of 2027,
2028, 2029, and 2030. The County Attorney shall devote his or her full
time to the legal work of the office of the County Attorney and shall not
engage in the private practice of law.

      The annual salary of the office of Sheriff is hereby established
at 130% of the minimum base salary for the calendar years of 2027,
2028, 2029, and 2030.

      The annual salary of the office of County Assessor, Clerk,
Treasurer, and Clerk of the District Court is hereby established as the
minimum base salary, which is as follows:

                       $ 96,000 for calendar year 2027;
                       $ 99,000 for calendar year 2028;
                       $102,000 for calendar year 2029;
                       $105,000 for calendar year 2030;

      The County Surveyor salary shall be $ 15,000.00 during the
calendar years 2027, 2028, 2029, and 2030.

      BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that in the event the County Board
should designate any elected official, who is a qualified individual or
who is provided for designation by statute, to provide residential and
ag land valuation, he or she shall, beginning in the calendar year 2027
and ending in the calendar year 2030, receive $10,000.00 for each
calendar year valuation is provided.
               BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that in the event the County Board
       should designate any elected official, who is a qualified individual or who
       is provided for designation by statute, to serve as the Budget Making
       Authority, he or she shall, beginning in the calendar year 2027 and ending
       in the calendar year 2030, receive $10,000.00 for each calendar year that
       said official is designated as the Budget Making Authority.

              Dated this 6th day of January 2026.
Ayes: Ken Schmieding, Darrell J. Zabrocki, Misty Ahmic, Chair of the Board
Attest: Brandy M. Johnson, Seward County Clerk

Affirmative Vote: Zabrocki, Schmieding, Ahmic                          Motion Carried

Doug Brand, representing the Seward County Historical Society, was present to discuss
directing the Historical Society’s request for a tax levy to be placed on the ballot for the
next General Election. Statute states that “whenever there is a nonprofit county
historical association or society organized under the corporation laws of the state, a tax
of not more than three-tenths of one cent on each one hundred dollars upon the
taxable property in the county may be levied for the purpose of establishing a fund. No
initial levy shall be made for such purpose unless the proposition to make such levy is
first submitted to a vote of the people of the county at a general election.” In order for
this issue to be submitted for the November 2026 general election, the county board
would need to pass a resolution allowing the question to be placed on the ballot. Brand
noted that the Seward County Historical Society and Museum facilities are maintained
and operated by a small group of dedicated volunteer members, and donations from
those who visit and tour the museum. To maintain the museum, and upgrade and
modernize the exhibits, financial aid will become a necessity in the future.

Moved by Schmieding to allow the Seward County Historical Society Museum to place
the levy request on the General Election ballot.

Motion died for lack of second.

Moved by Zabrocki and seconded by Schmieding to adopt Resolution No. 3912 in regard
to approving the Seward County Historical Society and Museum’s request for a tax levy
to be placed on the ballot for the next General Election.
                             RESOLUTION NO. 3912 OF THE
                    SEWARD COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
       WHEREAS, pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. §23-355.01, a nonprofit county
       historical organization or society organized under the corporation laws of
       this state may request a tax levy of not more than three-tenths of one
       cent on each one hundred dollars upon the taxable value of all the taxable
       property of the county for the purpose of establishing a fund to be used
       for the establishment, management, and purchase of exhibits, equipment,
       and other personal property and real property and maintenance of such
       nonprofit county historical association or society;

       WHEREAS, the Seward County Historical Society and Museum, located in
       Goehner, Nebraska, has requested county funding in the levy amount of
       .003 per $100 to maintain the museum, and upgrade and modernize the
       exhibits;

       WHEREAS, the Seward County Historical Society and Museum has
       requested that the above funding request be placed on the ballot for the
       next general election for voter approval;

       WHEREAS, upon proposal by a nonprofit county historical organization or
       society of such a tax levy to be submitted to the voters of the county, the
      proposition for such levy shall be placed on the ballot by the county board
      at the next general election following receipt of the request;

      WHEREAS, the next general election is scheduled for November 3, 2026;
      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Seward County Board of
      Commissioners do hereby direct the following to be placed on the ballot for
      the General Election on November 3, 2026, to be decided by the voters of
      Seward County:
         Should the County Board of Commissioners of Seward County,
         Nebraska be authorized to levy an annual tax of not more than
         three-tenths of one cent on each one hundred dollars upon the
         taxable value of all the taxable property in the county for the
         purpose of establishing a fund to be used by the Seward County
         Historical Society and Museum, located in Goehner, Nebraska, for
         the establishment, management, and purchase of exhibits,
         equipment, and other personal property and real property and
         maintenance of such nonprofit county historical association or
         society, including the construction and improvement of necessary
         buildings thereupon?


            YES [a vote “yes” is for authorizing the levy]


            NO [a vote “no” is against authorizing the levy]

      Moved by: Zabrocki        Seconded by: Schmieding
      Ayes: Ken Schmieding, Darrell J. Zabrocki, Misty Ahmic, Chair of the Board
      Attest: Brandy M. Johnson, Seward County Clerk

Affirmative Vote: Zabrocki, Schmieding, Ahmic                      Motion Carried

The Executive Session was tabled until next week.

Known items on the agenda for Board of Equalization on January 13, 2026 are as
follows:
8:30 a.m.   Reorganizational Meeting
            1. Convene and announce Open Meetings Law
            2. Pledge of Allegiance
            3. Discuss/Action – Election of Chair and Vice Chair
            4. Discuss/Action - Approve minutes of December 23, 2025
            5. Discuss/Action – Motor Vehicle Tax Exemptions for Tax Year 2026
            6. Discuss/Action – Assessor Information Update

Known items on the agenda for Board of Commissioners on January 13, 2026 are as
follows:
9:00 a.m.   Reorganizational Meeting
            1. Convene and announce Open Meetings Law
            2. Pledge of Allegiance

Other Business Matters to Address When Time Allows

             3. Discuss/Action – Election of Chair and Vice Chair
             4. Discuss/Action – Appoint Office Liaisons, Make Committee
                Appointments, Select Depositories, Newspapers, Set Wages of Deputy
                Officials and other Reorganizational Meeting Responsibilities
             5. Discuss/Action – Approve Minutes of January 6, 2026
             6. Discuss/Action – Claims for the Period through January 2, 2026
             7. Discuss/Action – Public/Organizations/Officials
               8. Commissioner Reports
               9. Discuss/Action – Agenda for January 20, 2026

9:30 a.m.      Discuss/Action – Award Bids for Fence at Missile Base
9:45 a.m.      Discuss/Action – Executive Session – Personnel

Moved by Zabrocki and seconded by Schmieding to adjourn at 10:07 a.m.
Affirmative Vote: Zabrocki, Schmieding, Ahmic                  Motion Carried

State of Nebraska)
County of Seward) ss.

I, Brandy Johnson, the undersigned County Clerk of Seward County, Nebraska do
hereby certify the foregoing minutes are true and are part of the official records of
this office.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal this
13th day of January 2026.


County Clerk                                    Chairperson
