                               BUTLER COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS

March 16, 2026

A public hearing and special meeting of the Board of Supervisors of Butler County, Nebraska, was held
on the 16th day of March 2026 at the Butler County Highway Department Meeting Room in David City,
Nebraska, at 6:00 p.m. regarding a possible moratorium on specific types of land development during
the comprehensive planning process undertaken by the Butler County Planning Commission.

Present were the following: Scott Steager, Tony Krafka, Scot Bauer, Scott Griess, Brad Vandenberg.
Absent: Jan Sypal, Bob Coufal.

Notice of the public hearing and special meeting was given in advance thereof, by Publication, a
designated method for giving notice, as shown by the Proof of Publication attached to the minutes.
Notice of this meeting was given to all members of the Board and a copy of their acknowledgement of
receipt of notice and the agenda is attached to the minutes. Availability of the agenda was
communicated in the advance notice and in the notice to all members of the board of this meeting. All
proceedings hereafter shown were taken while the convened meeting was open to the attendance of
the public.

The Pledge of Allegiance was recited by all present.

The Chairman called the meeting to order and announced that a complete copy of the Open Meetings
Act is posted in the meeting room.

Public Hearing
Moved by Griess, seconded by Bauer, to open the public hearing. Upon roll call vote the following voted:
Aye: Griess, Bauer, Krafka, Vandenberg, Steager.
Nay: None.
Absent: Sypal, Coufal.
Motion carried.

Chairman Steager invited public comment regarding a possible moratorium on specific types of land
development during the comprehensive planning process undertaken by the Butler County Planning
Commission, allotting four minutes per speaker.

Keith Shonka, Bellwood: Shonka stated that he lives near the proposed solar farm site. He said he has no
problem with the proposed project, and that it is probably a good use for that land as it has a high water
table and is difficult to farm properly. He has personal solar panels on his own property and would
prefer solar to windmills.

Jonathan Leo, Omaha: Leo thanked the Board for holding a public hearing on a subject of such
importance to Butler County. He urged the Board to support the Planning Commission’s resolution
imposing a moratorium and urged the inclusion of poultry confinement, noting that a clear majority of
survey respondents were in favor of a moratorium on poultry confinements. He suggested there may be
a conflict of interest as two Planning Commission members did not disclose that they are livestock
farmers before the Planning Commission voted 4-3 against including poultry confinements in the
moratorium.
Mike Ebel, Columbus: Ebel lives in Columbus but owns land in Butler County. He said he has “an issue
with Jonathan Leo telling us what to do.” He stated he is for development, but a moratorium is not
needed. He said the planners have wasted time and could have had the comprehensive plan done by
now. He added that the solar project has been in process for seven years now. He said he hopes the
Planning Commission gets moving on it and gets the comprehensive plan done. Ebel stated if the solar
project has already started, good luck trying to stop it. He said it is time to move forward, we need the
electricity, they have done a good job so far, and it would be good for our County.

Shannon Raemakers, rural Butler County: Raemakers said he has a piece of ground that Sandhills Energy
is going to use. The ground is hard to farm, hard to get a good yield, so why not get some use out of this
ground. Water table and nitrates are high, so why not put it into a solar farm and relieve some of that.
Raemakers stated he lives there, the solar farm will be all around him, which is not ideal, but what else
are they going to do. Sandhills Energy has been paying him to hold the ground for them. He would like
to see the Board let it go through and let them proceed.

Roger Topil, Rising City: Topil stated that he was speaking on his own behalf, not on behalf of the
Planning Commission. He said after the Planning Commission passed the resolution imposing the
moratorium, he started thinking about the exception added for projects under construction. He noted
that the language about excluding projects with “concrete evidence that construction has commenced”
creates a gray area and suggested eliminating that sentence to avoid disputes about what constitutes
construction. He said many people do not understand that no moratorium creates a lot more work for
the Planning Commission.

Joe Peterson, Bellwood: Peterson explained that many people misunderstand moratorium as a ban,
rather than a temporary pause, emphasizing that the purpose is to allow the Planning Commission time
to create rules for responsible development. He disagrees with those who feel the Planning Commission
has been wasting time. He cited the survey results indicating that a majority of residents are in favor of a
moratorium. He also noted that it would be odd for the Board to vote against what the Planning
Commission has been working on.

David McPhillips, David City: McPhillips spoke in favor of a moratorium as a pause button to allow rules
to be developed and to prevent non-conforming land uses, noting the community survey clearly showed
residents wanted a moratorium. He stated the County needs rules in place to protect the people who
live here.

Sam Barlean, David City: Barlean has 24 chicken houses within a half mile of his property and said the
smell is unbelievable at times. He stated that chicken houses are likely the reason the planning process
was started, noting that Read or Reading Township imposed their own moratorium, yet they were
excluded from the moratorium for some reason. He said he is livestock friendly but emphasized the
need for setbacks and owner residency requirements.

Dan Schmid, Dwight: Schmid asked the Board to support the Planning Commission, which they
appointed, pass the moratorium, and listen to the experts. He suggested the Board consider whether
those in opposition to the moratorium could have a financial interest. He also suggested adding large
industrial projects to the moratorium list and recommended specifically naming exempt projects rather
than using nonspecific language about construction status.

Robert Kobza, Bellwood: Kobza stated that the planner was hired to come with a comprehensive plan
and to this point, he has never delivered a comprehensive plan to the Planning Commission. All he has
said is moratorium; he is not doing his job. He told the Board they need to move forward if this man and
his company cannot do his job. He said he is against any moratorium and wants to see a plan first.

Galen Juranek, Linwood: Juranek sold property to the solar company. He said the process started back in
2019, so this is nothing new. He said he sold the land because he did not want to lease it. He noted that
there is a lot to it – transmission companies, power companies, etc. He stated the land is not good for
farming, with a high water table and high nitrates. He said he told the NRD about the solar farm and
they agreed it would be a good use of the land. He stated that everyone is here because of chicken
barns; back in the 1970s it was hog houses. He lives on the Linwood spur near a 6,000 head feedyard
and six hog houses to the west. They have always used bottled water because of the high nitrates. He
noted discussions surrounding chicken barns and high phosphorus, and said you need to do soil tests for
a baseline.

Brian Boerner, Sandhills Energy: Boerner stated the solar project has been in development for seven
years and that construction started in February. He said the company invested $15M with $100M in
irrevocable equipment orders that require 4-5 years lead time. It does not happen overnight; it is a 5-7
year project. He stated that Sandhills Energy came before the Board in 2019 and got a letter of support
for the project. Boerner said they have engineered the project to conform with most common
ordinances; they will plant native grasses and are exploring sheep grazing. He requested if the Board
decides to move forward with a moratorium, that they specifically exempt Butler County Solar.

Steve Barlean, David City: Barlean stated that he was speaking on his own behalf, not on behalf of the
Planning Commission. He questioned Sandhills Energy’s timeline and presented promotional material
from Sandhills Energy stating construction would begin in Q2 2026; noting it is still Q1 of 2026.

Aaron Schmid, western Butler County: Schmid expressed frustration and disappointment with the
Planning Commission meetings. He opposed a moratorium as too late and a knee-jerk reaction. He said
the County Board should have implemented zoning earlier and expressed concern about potential
liability to the County and the negative message to potential developers. He emphasized the need to
focus on completing the comprehensive plan rather than a moratorium.

Elijah Frasher, Surprise: Frasher questioned where people wanting to do business in Butler County live
and asked if outside companies have the best interests of County residents in mind, stating that they are
here to make money. He emphasized the need to protect local families and community members. He
stated that we (Butler County) are a magnet for outside development because the County has no
zoning. He urged the Board to protect him and his family, and other rural Butler County residents.

No other members of the public came forward to speak. Moved by Vandenberg, seconded by Krafka, to
close the public hearing. Upon roll call vote the following voted:
Aye: Vandenberg, Krafka, Bauer, Griess, Steager.
Nay: None.
Absent: Sypal, Coufal.
Motion carried.

Discussion/Possible action regarding land use moratorium
Chairman Steager noted that the Board heard from 15 people; the majority of whom were in favor of a
moratorium. Some people talked about adding chicken barns to the proposed moratorium; others
talked about excluding the solar project.
Supervisor Krafka stated that the solar project started in 2019. He said they contacted him and at that
time he told them Butler County did not have zoning and no permits were needed. Since 2019, Sandhills
Energy has been working with that as they had no other guidance. We (the Board) still have not
provided them with any guidance. Such projects do not start overnight. Additionally, some people have
bought or sold ground for 1031 exchanges. He said that the only people from his district who spoke
were in favor of the solar project. He said a moratorium can be placed on projects that have not started,
but are any projects going to get started in nine months? Do it or don’t do it, it isn’t going to affect
anyone.

Supervisor Vandenberg said that there has been discussion regarding a data processing center going up
in Brainard; that individual has not yet talked to the Township Board or County Board. The only data
centers he is familiar with use a great deal of electricity and water.

Supervisor Krafka noted that Joe Peterson lives in Krafka’s district; he did not say anything about the
moratorium.

Supervisor Griess said he reviewed the community survey results and noted definite support for the top
five land uses (wind, solar, data centers, battery storage, landfill).

Supervisor Bauer stated that the Planning Commission has been working on more than just a
moratorium. They want a moratorium on the five land uses. We (the Board) are here to discuss
Resolution 2026-04.

Chairman Steager asked Tim Keelan, Hanna:Keelan, about the possibility of excluding the solar project
from the moratorium and how doing so would impact the ability to move forward with the
comprehensive plan. He asked how soon a comprehensive plan could be developed so as to not hold the
solar folks up. Keelan reminded the Board and residents that 90% of survey respondents were not
interested in solar as a land use in Butler County, along with 3-4 other land uses. Out of 800 survey
responses, 90% came back in favor of a moratorium. They spent two months conducting the survey.
Keelan stated that he is here to serve on behalf of the rural community. The first thing they needed to
do was the survey. As they get into the planning process, they have a land use matrix and demographics
to present at the next Planning Commission meeting. Keelan said they have all of the existing land uses
put together, but need to look at the soil, etc. He said they requested a moratorium to allow them to get
to work. There are many things to consider, they have to comb through a great deal of literature and
conduct a lot of research. The Planning Commission will have to meet several times over the summer,
but they are on route to finish by September 1st. The comprehensive plan should be done by June; they
will meet in July and August to put together the zoning regulations. He said in response to those who
think they have been doing nothing, that is not true. The first step was to do the survey; 90% of
respondents are not interested in wind or solar. There are pros and cons with various land uses; he said
at this point he assumes solar would be a non-conforming use, based on the survey results. He noted
with zoning, there are permitted use, special permitted use, and non-conforming use.

Chairman Steager asked about the timeline as it relates to length of a potential moratorium. Keelan
reiterated that the plan is to have the comprehensive plan and zoning complete by September 1st, after
which time the Planning Commission and County Board will need to hold public hearings. Keelan
continued that in his opinion, chicken barns should be included in a moratorium. He also recommended
removing verbiage regarding commencement of construction because it is hard to make that
determination. He asked that the board pause development now so the Planning Commission and the
planners can get through the process.
Supervisor Krafka noted that Sandhills Energy conducted compaction tests last summer. They reimburse
him for running over corn. Everything they told him isn’t a lie. He said he has asked them questions, and
they have given him answers. They are on their schedule; they are not trying to push something ahead
of schedule. He said it is not their fault we do not have zoning.

Supervisor Griess spoke in favor of striking the clause about construction, based on comments received
during the public hearing and information from the planning consultant.

Chairman Steager asked for a motion one way or the other. Moved by Griess, seconded by Vandenberg,
to approve Resolution 2026-07, mirroring the Planning Commission’s Resolution 2026-04, but striking
the verbiage excluding projects under construction. Upon roll call vote the following voted:
Aye: Griess, Vandenberg, Bauer, Steager.
Nay: Krafka.
Absent: Sypal, Coufal.

There being no further business to come before the board, the Chairman adjourned the meeting at 7:08
p.m. The next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Supervisors will be April 6, at 9:00 a.m.

Lori L. Aschoff                                                          Scott Steager
County Clerk                                                             Chairman
