[Public]

RESOLUTION a a a G

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF SHELBYVILLE,
TENNESSEE APPROVING AND AUTHORIZING A MORATORIUM ON
DEVELOPMENT OF ALL DATA’ CENTERS, INCLUDING
CRYPTOCURRENCY MINING, AND SIMILAR HIGH IMPACT LAND
USES IN THE CITY OF SHELBYVILLE.

WHEREAS, the Shelbyville City Council is committed to encouraging and promoting
responsible economic development and managed growth while maintaining quality of life for its
residents and general public of the City and Bedford County by preserving the health, safety,
welfare, public infrastructure, and natural resources; and,

WHEREAS, current and emerging technologies such as data processing and
cryptocurrency facilities, cloud computing services, and similar land uses, herein referred to as
“DATA CENTER FACILITIES”; may require extraordinary amounts and levels of electrical
power, water usage, land disturbance, telecommunications, infrastructure, and utility upgrades
which may significantly impact and even strain municipal services and public resources; and,

WHEREAS, Data Center Facilities may generate significant noise from industrial cooling
systems, such as fans and compressors, which may negatively impact neighboring property values,
public health, and peaceful enjoyment of the nearby communities; and,

WHEREAS, the current language of the Shelbyville Municipal Zoning Ordinance, does
not contain a definition, language for specific development standards, or district classification
assignment for Data Center Facilities as a land use; and,

WHEREAS, the City Council recognize the need to study Data Center Facilities and enact
potential amendments to the land use regulations to clearly define the category and appropriate
regulations, compatibility and capacity analysis of public utility and infrastructure, for such land
use; and,

WHEREAS, the City Council find that allowing any development to occur during this
period would undermine the City’s ability to implement thoughtful and effective land use
regulations in the Public Interest; and,

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission at their June 25, 2026, regular meeting find a
moratorium on development of Data Center Facilities is appropriate for purpose stated above
support and RECOMMEND FAVORABLY to the City Council that a ONE YEAR
MORATORIUM be approved and authorized.

Moratorium on Data Center Facilities
Page 1 of 3


[Public]

NOW, THEREFORE, LET IT BE ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF SHELBYVILLE,
TENNESSEE THAT:

Section 1, For the purpose of this Resolution, (DATA CENTER FACILITIES” shall mean
any facility or group of facility for the storage, management, processing, transmission, or
hosting of digital data, cloud computing services, cryptocurrency mining and validation
operations, server farms, or similar high density digital computing or manufacturing
infrastructures.

Section 2. The City Council effective immediately until July 8, 2027, imposes a one (1)
calendar year moratorium, or twelve (12) months, from the date of adoption of this Resolution.

Section 3. During the moratorium period, no permits, zoning approvals, building approvals,
text amendments, utility improvements or extension, development agreement, etc. shall be
issued for Data Center Facilities as defined in Section 1 of this resolution, within the
jurisdiction and corporate limits of the City of Shelbyville, Tennessee.

Section 3. During the time period of the moratorium, the Planning Commission and Planning
Staff is authorized and shall:
a. Research and conduct studies on the impact of data centers on utilities, infrastructure,
water resources, public services, environmental quality, and land use compatibility;
b. Review and consider potential amendment to the zoning ordinances, development,
regulations, and permitting requirements for Data Center Facilities,
c. Consult with utility providers, other professionals, and the general public regarding
appropriate standards and safeguards for such developments.

Section 4. The moratorium may be extended by approval of the City Council beyond the initial
moratorium date of July 8, 2027, expiration date land use regulations have not been adopted
for Data Center Facilities.

Section 5. If any portion of this Resolution is found invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining sections shall remain in full force and effect. All resolutions in
conflict herewith shall be and here rescinded insofar as such conflict exists.

Moratorium on Data Center Facilities
Page 2 of 3


[Public]

f-
Approved and adopted this T Day of July 2026.

APPROVED:

ATTESTED:

rhe Exit

Lisa Smith, City Recorder

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

inger] fom Snr, cy a ey

Moratorium on Data Center Facilities
Page 3 of 3
