Cory OF SPARTA
6 Liberty Square
PO, Box 30

Sparta, Tennessee 38583
931.836.3248

sags! 931.836.3941 lax
BLUEGRASS USA Www. sparlun.conl AGENDA

BOARD OF MAYOR AND ALDERMEN

Thursday, July16, 2026 - 5:00 PM

Sparta City Hall, 2" Floor

Invocation
Pledge of Allegiance

1.

Approval of the Minutes of the June 18, 2026 regular meeting.

ORDINANCES

2.

Approve Ordinance No.26-1003 on second and final reading, An Ordinance of the City of
Sparta, Tennessee Establishing a Temporary Moratorium on New Data Center Development
within the City of Sparta for a period of One Hundred Eighty (180) Days pending review of
proposed Zoning Regulations and Development Standards.

PURCHASING

3. Approve the low bid for CDBG Sewer Project.

4. Approve the low bid for water line upgrades.

5. | Approve the purchase of a 2026 Silverado 3500HD 4WD CC Diesel Truck for the Public
Works Department in the amount of $57,267.80 from Wilson County Motors. This is State
Contract #88746. This is a budgeted item.

6. Approve the purchase of a 2026 Ford Police Interceptor Utility AWD from Lonnie Cobb
Ford in the amount of $58,398.00 for the Police Department. This is State Contract #209.
This is a budget item.

FINANCE

7. Approve the Finance Director’s May financials.

PERSONNEL

8. Approve the hiring recommendation for the position of Street Laborer, due to the
resignation of Sean Poston.

9. Approve the proposal from BTA Consulting to perform an Employee Compensation Stug

BOARD APPOINTMENS :

10. Approve the following expired Board patments.



BEER BOARD

Procedural Note: Suspend meeting of Board of Mayor and Aldermen
Convene as Beer Board

1. Application for On-Premise Beer Permit. Barry Klein, D/B/A KLN Cycle Design located
at 8 Depot Street.

Procedural Note: Declare business of Beer Board finished
Reconvene as Board of Mayor and Aldermen

MISCELLANEOUS
11. Department head Reports.

12. Other NEW business.

13. UNFINISHED business

14. Citizens Comments from Sparta Citizens (3-minute limit).
15. Adjourn.

The City of Sparta is an equal opportunity provider and employer.


MINUTES



June 18, 2026

The Board of Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Sparta, White County, Tennessee, met in a scheduled
meeting at Sparta City Hall, at 5:00 PM on the 18th day of June 2026, with Vice-Mayor Bobby Officer
presiding.

Members Present Members Absent
Vice-Mayor Bobby Officer
Alderman Jim Ftoyd
Alderman Hoyt Jones
Alderman Travis McBride
Alderman Judy Payne
Alderman Brent Young

Status of other city staff members were

Tonya R. Tindle City Administrator / City Recorder Present
Dillard Quick Public Works Director Present
Caroline Sapp City Attorney Present
Nick Dunn Police Chief Present
Kevin Powers Fire Chief Present
Mike O'Neal Codes Enforcement Absent
Belva Bess Electric Manager Present
Tonia Wilson Finance Director Present

A quorum was present and notice had been previously mailed to all members and the news media.
Vice-Mayor Officer called the meeting to order. Travis McBride led a prayer and Hoyt Jones led the Pledge
of Allegiance.

There was a motion by Alderman Payne with a second by Alderman McBride to approve the
minutes of the June 4, 2026 regular called meeting, which had been previously mailed to all board members.
and read by each member prior to the meeting. All voted “Aye” by voice vote. Motion passed.

There was a public hearing regarding Ordinance No. 26-1000, an Ordinance to provide for the
general revenue thereof for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2027 to be known as the General Revenue
Ordinance and setting the tax rate at $.5922/ $100, which was the same as last year. No comments were
heard and the public hearing was declared closed.

There was a public hearing regarding Ordinance No. 26-1001, an ordinance making and fixing the
annual appropriations of the several departments for the city for the fiscal year beginning July 1, and ending
June 30, 2027. No comments were heard and the public hearing was declared closed.

There was a motion by Alderman Payne with a second by Alderman Jones to approve Resolution
No.26-626, a Resolution setting forth legistative findings regarding Data Center Development, expressing
the City’s intent to consider a temporary development moratorium and requesting review of proposed
Zoning Regulations by the Sparta Municipal Planning Commission. The roll call was as follows:

Alderman Floyd....... 2.0... cce ce ceee cee ce tence ne ees cuneeeneeeeecesesaeeeaaeeeeees

Alderman JOneS.....0.... cece cece cee cee cee ne ree ene errr cee ree nen retina eeeeeed

Alderman McBride...........0.... ccc ceceee eee cneeee eee eee bene eesaeaan ete teense ane ee

Vice-Mayor Officer.. .

Alderman Payne.....

Alderman Young..........

Mayor LOWLY... cc cece ee treet eer eres ne eee nee

The motion passed.



There was a motion by Alderman Payne with a second by Alderman McBride to approve Ordinance
No. 26-1000 on second and final reading, an Ordinance to provide for the general revenue thereof for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2027 to be known as the General Revenue Ordinance and setting the tax rate
at $.5922/ $100, which was the same as last year. The roll call was as follows:

Alderman Floyd...........ccccccccccecces cee een tee cee aeecaneeedee eee ceeeaa eee teg ene caa ead

Alderman Jones..

Alderman McBride..

Vice-Mayor Officer..

Alderman Payne.....

Alderman Young..

Mayor Lowery

The motion passed.

There was a motion by Alderman Jones with a second by Alderman Floyd to approve Ordinance
No. 26-1001 on second and final reading, an Ordinance making and fixing the annual appropriations of the
several departments for the city for the fiscal year beginning July 1, and ending June 30, 2027. The roll call
was as follows:

Alderman Floyd....... 0.0 ...ccccccccecceeeeeee cee eee see cen see teesee eee tenses en eeeeeeens Yes

Alderman Jones...

Alderman McBride. . Yes
Vice-Mayor Officer.. Yes
Alderman Payne.. Yes
Alderman Young. .........0....:0cceccee cee eee eee crease neeeee vee ceeeeeenees serene essen Yes
Mayor Lowery... cere etter tener rennet teen ne ren eer ees Absent

The motion passed.

There was a motion by Alderman Payne with a second by Alderman Jones to approve Ordinance
No. 26-1002 on second and final reading, an Ordinance amending the fiscal year beginning July 1, and
ending June 30, 2026 Operating Budget that was adopted by Ordinance #25-989. The roll call was as
follows:

Alderman Floyd... eee nitric en tne tre renee rea erred Yes

Alderman Jones...

Alderman McBride Yes
Vice-Mayor Officer.. Yes
Alderman Payne.. .Yes
Alderman Young.. Yes

Mayor Lowery... ccc ce cee cee tee eee eee crteen eee seeneenatereeenieeeeeniees . Absent
The motion passed.

There was a motion by Alderman Payne with a second by Alderman McBride to approve Ordinance
No. 26-1003 on first reading, an Ordinance establishing a temporary moratorium on New Data Center
Development within the City of Sparta for a period of One-Hundred Eighty (180) days and pending review
of proposed Zoning Regulations and Development Standards. The roll call was as follows:

Alderman Floyd... 0.0.00... cccee cect een cee tee cee enterr eet titer renee TRS

Alderman Jones... ... Yes
Alderman McBride... Yes
Vice-Mayor Officer.. 2 Yes
Alderman Payne..... .. Yes
Alderman Young.. . Yes
Mayor LOWES... ec ccccee cee eee eee cee ttn ene ee cette a aease setae nee nee eee gees Absent

The motion passed.

There was a motion by Alderman Floyd with a second by Alderman Payne to approve the tax
change of assessments #24-564 and 25-565 from the tax assessor. All voted “Aye” by voice vote. Motion
passed.

There was a motion by Alderman Jones with a second by Alderman Floyd to approve the low bid
for chemicals for the water and wastewater plants for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2027. The low bid of
Kemira PAX-XL 8/lb. at .48/ib. with 3% fuel charge from Dycho, Bioxide @ 2.60/gal., and Sulfur Dioxide
150 Ib. cylinders @ 1.10/lb. from Citco Water, and Sterfloc925 DR400 Polymer at $17.76 from Univar
Solutions, and Sodium Hypochtorite at $2.0650/gal and Chlorine 150/Ib cylinders @ 1.34/Ib from Brenntag.
All voted “Aye” by voice vote. Motion passed.


There was a motion by Alderman Young with a second by Alderman McBride to approve the low
bid for rock and gravel for the various departments to Rogers Group. All voted “Aye” by voice vote. Motion
passed.

There was a motion by Alderman Jones with a second by Alderman Payne to approve the contract
with Patterson & Dewar Engineers in the amount of $70,000 for the engineering of the New Circuit Upgrades
Distribution Design. All voted “Aye” by voice vote. Motion passed.

There was a motion by Alderman McBride with a second by Alderman Young to approve the
promotion of Devin Moore to Sergeant, Pay Grade 5A-2, due to Andrew Corso resigning. All voted “Aye”
by voice vote. Motion passed.

There was a motion by Alderman McBride with a second by Alderman Jones to approve the hiring
recommendations of Spencer Booher and Sean Johannes, due to the promotion of Devin Moore and
Thomas Lafferty resigning. All voted “Aye” by voice vote. Motion passed.

There was a motion by Alderman McBride with a second by Alderman Young to approve the hiring
recommendation of Dakota Lindsey for Street Laborer, due to the promotion of J.T. Knowles. All voted
“Aye” by voice vote. Motion passed.

There was a motion by Alderman Young with a second by Alderman McBride to approve the hiring
recommendation of Jesse Wood for the position of Water Trades Helper 1, due to the resignation of Gage
Walker. All voted “Aye” by voice vote. Motion passed.

There was a motion by Alderman McBride with a second by Alderman Payne to approve the hiring
recommendation of Caden Hubbard for Sewer Trades Helper 1, due to the resignation of Jordan Johnson.
All voted “Aye” by voice vote. Motion passed.

Department heads placed their reports in the agenda and Aldermen asked questions.
No citizens comments were heard.
No additional items were discussed.
There being no further business, there was a motion to adjourn by Alderman Payne with a second

by Alderman McBride. All voted “Aye” by voice vote. Motion passed. The meeting was adjourned at 5:20
P.M.

Read and approved this day of , 2026

Jerry Lowery, Mayor

ATTEST:

Tonya R. Tindle, City Recorder


AGENDA ITEM #2



ORDINANCE

AN ORDINANCE OF THE ORDINANCE # 26-1003
CITY OF SPARTA a
TENNESSEE ESTABLISHING |2eqested By:
A TEMPORARY
MORATORIUM ON NEW
DATA CENTER Approved as to form and correctness:
DEVELOPMENT WITHIN
THE CITY OF SPARTA FORA
PERIOD OF ONE HUNDRED (City Attorney)
EIGHTY (180) DAYS PENDING
REVIEW OF PROPOSED t a , ;
Passed 1“ Reading:
ZONING REGULATIONS AND = June i OMe
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS | Passed 2™ Reading:

Prepared By: Jerry Lowery

| Minute Book Page

WHEREAS, the City of Sparta is authorized by Tennessee law to regulate land use and
development for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Mayor and Aldermen has initiated a review of potential
zoning regulations governing the location, construction, operation, and infrastructure
impacts of Data Centers within the City of Sparta; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Mayor and Aldermen has adopted findings recognizing the
potential impacts of Data Centers upon electric infrastructure, water and sewer systems,
public safety resources, land-use compatibility, industrial land availability, and future
economic development opportunities; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Mayor and Aldermen finds that additional time is necessary
for review by the Planning Commission, City staff, utility departments, legal counsel, and
other professionals in order to establish appropriate development standards; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Mayor and Aldermen find that allowing new Data Center
applications to proceed before completion of such review could undermine the City's
ability to adopt and implement appropriate regulations;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF MAYOR AND
ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF SPARTA, TENNESSEE:


SECTION 1. PURPOSE

The purpose of this Ordinance is to preserve the status quo while the City evaluates and
considers appropriate zoning regulations and development standards applicable to Data
Centers.

SECTION 2. LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS

The Board of Mayor and Aldermen hereby find that:

A. Data Centers may require substantial electric demand and infrastructure commitments.

B. Data Centers may require substantial water, sewer, transportation, and emergency
service resources.

C. Additional review is necessary to evaluate the impacts of Data Centers upon municipal
infrastructure, utility capacity, industrial land availability, and public services.

D. The public health, safety, and welfare are served by allowing sufficient time for the
completion of such review.

E. A temporary moratorium is necessary to preserve the City's ability to establish and
implement appropriate regulations.

SECTION 3. MORATORIUM ESTABLISHED

For a period of one hundred eighty (180) days following the effective date of this
Ordinance, no application shail be accepted, processed, reviewed, approved, permitted,
licensed, or otherwise authorized for:

A. A new Data Center;

B. Expansion of an existing Data Center;

C. Site plan approval for a Data Center;

D. Building permits for a Data Center;

E. Special Exception approvals for a Data Center;

F. Rezoning requests submitted for the primary purpose of establishing a Data Center.

SECTION 4. APPLICABILITY

This moratorium shall apply to all property located within the corporate limits of the City
of Sparta.


SECTION 5. EXCEPTIONS

The Board of Mayor and Aldermen may grant an exception to this moratorium upon a
finding that:

A. The proposed activity will not interfere with the purposes of this Ordinance;
B. Extraordinary hardship would result from application of the moratorium;

C. Granting the exception is consistent with the public health, safety, and welfare.
SECTION 6. REVIEW OF REGULATIONS

During the moratorium period, the City shall:

A. Review potential zoning regulations for Data Centers;

B. Evaluate utility infrastructure impacts;

C. Consider land-use compatibility standards;

D. Consider industrial land preservation measures;

E. Consider infrastructure reimbursement requirements;

F. Consider any additional regulations necessary to protect the interests of the City.
SECTION 7. TERMINATION

This moratorium shall automatically expire one hundred eighty (180) days after its
effective date unless earlier repealed by the Board of Mayor and Aldermen.

Nothing herein shall prohibit the City from adopting permanent zoning regulations prior
to expiration of the moratorium.

SECTION 8. SEVERABILITY

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect.

SECTION 9. EFFECTIVE DATE

This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon final adoption thereof, the
public welfare requiring it.

Passed Ist reading Sune 16, , 2026

Passed 2nd reading , 2026



AGENDA ITEM #3



HETHCOAT DAVIS

July 9, 2026 File 1005-38

Honorable Jerry Lowery, Mayor
City of Sparta, TN.

6 Liberty Square, PO Box 30
Sparta, TN. 38583

Subject: Recommendation of Award
2022 CDBG Sewer System Rehabilitation
City of Sparta, TN

Mayor Lowery:

On Wednesday, July, 8, 2026, at 10:00 AM, separate sealed bids were received for the subject
project. Each Contractor appears to have complied with the Tennessee Board for Licensing
Requirements for submission of a competitively bid project. Five (5) competitive bids were
received and are summarized as follows. Bids were opened in no particular order and are
presented in the same order. A detailed tabulation of Bids is attached.

1. Bobby tuttrell & Sons 2. Hurst Excavating, LLC 3. John T. Hall Construction, inc.
Dundee, KY 42338 Knoxville, TN 37928 Sparta, TN 38583 K
TN License No, 55481 TN License No. 40740 e IN License No. 64333
Total Base Bid: $901,045.00 Total Base Bid: $1,026,027.00 Total Base Bid: $707,940.00
4. Norris Brothers Excavating, inc. 5. Portland Utilities Construction
Crossville, TN 38571 Portland, TN 37150
TN License No. 48700 TN License No. 29791
Total Base Bid: $652,015.00 Total Base Bid: $854,526.00

Although Norris Brother Excavating, Inc. was the apparent low Bidder, our professional
experiences with them have been very negative and have led us to the conclusion that they are
not a capable and competent construction company. Furthermore, their recent work history
indicates a disturbing trend of negligent workplace safety practices.

ae Hethcoat & Davis, Inc. recommends award of the 2022 CDBG Sewer System

Rehabilitation to the next lowest Bidder, John T. Hall Construction in the amount of
$707,940.00. John T. Hall Construction has demonstrated extensive and successful experience
with rehabilitative construction projects for sanitary sewer systems. It is important to note that,
should the City of Sparta accept the recommendation of Hethcoat & Davis, any vote to award
the Construction Contract should be subject to concurrence by Economic and Community
Development.

Please contact me if you have any questions.

278 FRANKLIN ROAD, SUITE 200 | BRENTWOOD, TN 37027 | PHONE: 615.577.4300 | FAx: 615.577.4303:


























































































































































