__________________________________________________________________

                     Anderson County Board of Commissioners


                                               6:00 P.M.
    Public Hearing – To consider Amendments to the “Anderson County Zoning Resolution” to include
provisions for Battery Energy Storage Systems Resolution No. 26-06-1257, Cryptocurrency Mining Facilities
            Resolution No. 26-06-1258, and Data Processing Centers Resolution No. 26-06-1259.

Presentation – Resolution No. 26-6-1260 Honoring the career of Detective Jeffery Neal Gilliam – requested
                                       by Commissioner Vowell


                                                  6:30 P.M.
                                            Consent Agenda
                                           Monday, June 15, 2026


  1. Approval and corrections of May 18, 2026 Minutes

  2. Approval of Notary and Bonds (Notary List included in packet)

  3. Committee Reports
         Anderson County Animal Advisory Committee Minutes (4/28/26)
         Library Board Minutes (4/9/26)
         ACWA Minutes (5/19/26)



                                                            Respectfully Submitted,
                                                            B. Denise Palmer, Chairman


ANDERSON COUNTY GOVERNMENT

Legal Notice of Public Hearing
Published in Compliance with TCA § 13-7-105 (b)

The Anderson County Board of Commissioners will hold a Public Hearing on June 15, 2026 at 6:00 PM in
Room 312 of the Anderson County Courthouse, 100 N. Main Street, Clinton, Tennessee, to consider
amendments to the “Anderson County Zoning Resolution” to include provisions for Battery Energy Storage
Systems, Cryptocurrency Mining Facilities and Data Processing Centers. A copy of the proposed amendments
is available at the Office of Planning & Development, Room 127 at the Courthouse.

Anderson County Building Commissioner

WHEREAS, the Anderson County Regional Planning Commission has reviewed and made recommendations
regarding the proposed amendments of the “Zoning Resolution of Anderson County, Tennessee,” in accordance
with Tennessee Code Annotated § 13-7-105 (b).

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Anderson County Board of Commissioners does hereby
amend the Anderson County Zoning Resolution.

This resolution shall take effect immediately after its notification and passage, the public welfare
requiring it.

Chair, AC Commission

ATTEST:

Jeff Cole, County Clerk

DATE:

100 North Main Street, Room 118, Clinton, Tennessee, 37716 (865) 463-6866


Anderson County Board of Commissioners
Anderson County, Tennessee

RESOLUTION NO. 26-06-1257

A RESOLUTION AMENDING THE “ZONING RESOLUTION
OF ANDERSON COUNTY, TENNESSEE” BY AMENDING THE SPECIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION TO INCLUDE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR BATTERY ENERGY
STORAGE SYSTEM FACILITIES

WHEREAS, the Anderson County Commission, in accordance with Section 13-7-105 of
the Tennessee Code Annotated, may amend the “Zoning Resolution of Anderson County,
Tennessee”; and

WHEREAS, the Anderson County Regional Planning Commission has forwarded its
recommendation to the Anderson County Commission regarding the amendment of the “Zoning
Resolution of Anderson County, Tennessee”.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Anderson County Board of
Commissioners of Anderson County, Tennessee, meeting in regular session on the 15'* day of
June, 2026, in Clinton, Tennessee, that:

Section 1. Division 035, Section 035-020C.4, is hereby amended to include Battery
Energy Storage System Facilities as a Special Exception in the I-2, Heavy Industrial District as
follows:

Cc. Special Exceptions:
4. Battery Energy Storage System Facilities, in accordance with Section 045-200.

Section 2. Division 45, Special Provisions, Section 045-200, Development Standards for
Battery Energy Storage Systems is hereby created as follows:

Sec. 045-200. Development Standards for Battery Energy Storage System Facilities
The following standards shall apply to all proposed Battery Energy Storage Facilities:

A. The minimum property size for a Battery Energy Storage System Facilities
is eight (8) acres.

B. Site Plan Requirement. A site plan, prepared in accordance with Section
045-130., and complying with all Anderson County zoning guidelines for
site plans. Included at the time of site plan submittal is an Emergency
Response Plan that has been developed and approved by the Anderson
County EMA along with a fissure report.

C. Stamped Engineered plans for the storage units showing compliance
with UL9540, UL9540A, and standard 855 of the NFPA are required
for any BESS.


D. BESS facilities shall be permitted as a special exception in the I-2,
Heavy Industrial District.

E. The owner and/or operator shall be responsible for installing an early
warning system at the facility.

F. Setback Requirements: A BESS shall be located two thousand feet from
all residential property lines and two hundred and fifty feet from all other
property lines.

G. All structures shall be surrounded and secured by an eight-foot-tall
security fence with all flammable/combustible vegetation cleared within
twenty-five (25) feet of the enclosure.

H. The Anderson County Zoning Office and Emergency Management
Agency shall be provided with copies of all required federal and state
permits.

I], The facility shall have a public water source with fire hydrants installed
on-site with adequate water flow and pressure for fire protection. All
water for cooling/fire suppression shall be captured on-site and disposed
of in accordance with all applicable requirements and best management
practices.

J. Maximum noise level at all property lines is 60 DB.

K. An “As Built Survey” of all improvements is required to be submitted to
the Anderson County Zoning Office once all improvements are completed.

L. The Developer/Owner/Operator is to provide training to local
emergency personnel before the BESS is commissioned. Specialized
equipment may be necessary which can be stored on site for use by First
Responders. The cost for training and equipment to be provided by the
Developer/Owner/Operator.

M. The BESS Facilities site shall have an E911 address, which shall be
shown on the site plan.

N. Decommission Bond. A bond is required for decommissioning the BESS
site. The bond amount is to be determined by the following formula:

Three (3) bids prepared by companies that have experience in decommissioning a BESS
development. The three bids will be reviewed and based upon the bids a monetary value will
be determined, and the bond amount will be 1.5 times the determined amount. This bond will
be made payable to Anderson County. The bond will be reviewed every five years, and
renewal will be subject to an inflation adjustment. If the site sits idle for six (6) months then
the owner, operator or developer will be contacted via a letter from the Anderson County


Zoning Office by Registered mail to determine if the owner, operator, or developer is planning
to decommission or restart operations. A response to the letter will need to be provided back to
the Anderson County Zoning Office within thirty (30) days of receipt at which time Anderson
County will determine the action that needs to be taken in regard to the Bond. Prior to the 5-
year renewal, a notice will be sent alerting the developer, operator or owner of pending
renewal. At the time of decommissioning or whenever there is a replacement of existing
batteries or equipment, all materials must be removed and disposed of outside of Anderson
County, Tennessee in a hazardous landfill.

O.  Ifachange in ownership or operator occurs, then a third party will be utilized to
determine the credibility of the new owner or operator in operating the BESS as per the
original design. If a new BESS design or expansion occurs, then a new site plan will be
required along with a new commissioning process and a new Emergency Response Plan. The
new owner, operator, or developer must provide contact names, phone numbers, and addresses
to the Anderson County Zoning Office.

Section 3. This resolution shall be effective from and after its passage and publication, as
required by Section 13-7-105(b) of the Tennessee Code Annotated, the public welfare
requiring it.

ADOPTED this day of ;

Chair, AC Commission Terry Frank, County Mayor

Public Hearing Held:

Resolved and Approved:

ATTEST:

Jeff Cole, County Clerk


Anderson County Board of Commissioners
Anderson County, Tennessee

RESOLUTION NO. 26-06-1258

A RESOLUTION AMENDING THE “ZONING RESOLUTION
OF ANDERSON COUNTY, TENNESSEE” BY AMENDING THE SPECIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION TO INCLUDE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR CRYPTOCURRENCY MINING
FACILITIES

WHEREAS, the Anderson County Commission, in accordance with Section 13-7-105 of the
Tennessee Code Annotated, may amend the zoning “Zoning Resolution of Anderson County, Tennessee”;
and

WHEREAS, the Anderson County Regional Planning Commission has forwarded its
recommendation to the Anderson County Commission regarding the amendment of the “Zoning Resolution
of Anderson County, Tennessee”.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Anderson County Board of Commissioners of
Anderson County, Tennessee, meeting in regular session on the 15‘ day of June, 2026, in Clinton,
Tennessee, that:

Section 1. Division 035, Section 035-020C.5, is hereby amended to include
Cryptocurrency Mining Facilities as a Special Exception in the I-2, Heavy Industrial District as
follows:

Cc. Special Exceptions:

5. Cryptocurrency Mining Facilities, in accordance with Section 045-210.

Section 2. Division 45, Special Provisions, Section 045-210, Development Standards for
Cryptocurrency Mining Facilities is hereby created as follows:

Sec. 045-210. Development Standards for Cryptocurrency Mining Facilities
The following standards shall apply to all proposed Cryptocurrency Mining Facilities:

A. Minimum Lot Size. Minimum lot size is eight (8) acres.

B. Written Assurance of Available Power. An official signed letter or similar written
document from the power distributer is required in conjunction with the site plan. This
letter/document shall assure that there is adequate available power for the Cryptocurrency
mining facility.


C. Site Requirements. The site must be accessible by emergency vehicles, and the company
is responsible for providing necessary access, water, wastewater, energy and other needed
services or facilities for its safe operation.

D. Site Plan Requirement. A site plan is required for any proposed Cryptocurrency Mining
Facilities prior to the beginning of construction, in accordance with Section 045-130.

E. Building Setback Requirements. All buildings or facilities housing Cryptocurrency mining
and related activities shall be set back from property lines a minimum of one hundred (100}
feet.

F. Maximum Sound Level. The sound level may not exceed sixty (60) decibels at the
property lines. Excess sound mitigation may be necessary to achieve this requirement.
Facilities shall use immersion systems only.

G. Surety for Site Cleanup. A bond or other surety acceptable to the planning commission is
required to ensure clean up of the site once operations cease. The amount of the surety shall be
based on a legitimate bid or estimate to remove all facilities and equipment from the site.
Driveways and similar improvements may remain at the discretion of the planning commission.

H. Disposal of Debris/Equipment/Materials. The disposal of computers, equipment, building
materials, and other debris shall go to alandfill or similar operation outside of Anderson County.

Section 3. This resolution shall be effective from and after its passage and publication, as required by
Section 13-7-105(b) of the Tennessee Code Annotated, the public welfare requiring it.

ADOPTED this day of :

Chair, AC Commission Terry Frank, County Mayor

Public Hearing Held:

Resolved and Approved:

ATTEST:

Jeff Cole, County Clerk


Anderson County Board of Commissioners
Anderson County, Tennessee

RESOLUTION NO. 26-06-1259

A RESOLUTION AMENDING THE “ZONING RESOLUTION
OF ANDERSON COUNTY, TENNESSEE” BY AMENDING THE SPECIAL
PROVISIONS SECTION TO INCLUDE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR DATA
PROCESSING CENTERS

WHEREAS, the Anderson County Commission, in accordance with Section 13-7-105 of
the Tennessee Code Annotated, may amend the “Zoning Resolution of Anderson County,
Tennessee”; and

WHEREAS, the Anderson County Regional Planning Commission has forwarded its
recommendation to the Anderson County Commission regarding the amendment of the “Zoning
Resolution of Anderson County, Tennessee”.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Anderson County Board of
Commissioners of Anderson County, Tennessee, meeting in regular session on the 15" day of
June, 2026, in Clinton, Tennessee, that:

Section 1. Division 10, Section 010-020, is hereby amended to include a definition for
data processing centers as follows:

DATA PROCESSING CENTERS: A facility used primarily for storage, management, processing,
and transmission of digital data, which houses computer or network equipment, systems, servers,
appliances, and other associated components related to digital data operations.

Section 2. Division 035, Sections 035-010E.1, 035-020C.6, and 035-030F.1,is hereby
amended to include Data Processing Centers as a Special Exception in the I-1, Light Industrial
District, I-2, Heavy Industrial District, and the I-3, Environmental Industrial District.

Section 3. Division 45, Special Provisions, Section 045-220, Development Standards for
Data Processing Centers is hereby created as follows:

Sec. 045-220. Development Standards for Data Processing Centers
The following standards shall apply to all proposed Data Processing Centers:

A. Minimum Lot Size: Minimum lot size is eight (8) acres.

B, Written Assurance of Adequate Power. An official signed memorandum or similar written
document from the power distributor is required in conjunction with the site plan. This
letter/document shall assure that adequate power capacity is available on the existing lines and


substation to ensure the energy capacity will be available to adequately serve the needs of the
service area and will not reduce the electrical service to existing customers. Confirmation
that the electrical infrastructure is sufficiently sized and can safely accommodate the proposed
facility. The written assurance will also include the amount of power that is being requested by
the center and how the utility plans on delivering power.

C. Written Assurance of Adequate Utility Services. An official signed memorandum or similar
written document from the utility provider is required in conjunction with the site plan.
This letter/document shall assure that adequate capacity is available on the existing lines and
system to ensure the water and sewer capacity will be available to adequately serve the needs
of the service area and will not reduce the service to existing customers.

D. Site Requirements. The site must be accessible by emergency vehicles and the company
is responsible for providing necessary access, water, wastewater, energy and other needed
services or facilities for its safe operation.

E. Site Plan Requirement. A site plan is required for any proposed Data Processing
Centers prior to the beginning of construction, in accordance with Section 045-130. In
addition to the plan, a narrative description of the nature of the on-site
activities and operations shall be provided that includes the market area
served by the center, hours of operation, total number of employees on each
shift, and the types and storage duration of materials on site.

F. Building Setback Requirements. All buildings or facilities housing data processing
and related activities shall be set back from property lines a minimum of one hundred (150}
feet and two hundred (200) feet from public roads. If adjacent to residential housing, the
minimum setback will be five hundred (500) feet.

G. Maximum Sound Level. The sound level may not exceed sixty (60) decibels at the
property lines. Excess sound mitigation may be necessary to achieve this requirement.
Facilities shall use immersion systems only.

H. Maximum height of structures shall be no more than fifty (50) feet.

I. A minimum ten (10) feet wide natural or planted buffer screen is required along the entire
length of a public road and property lines adjacent to residential areas. The buffer at the
entrance(s). The buffer shall consist of existing trees and other vegetation or planted cedar
or other evergreen trees that are a minimum of eight (8) feet in height at the time of planting
and grow to a minimum of twenty-five (25) feet in height.


ADOPTED this day of

Chair, AC Commission

Public Hearing Held:

Resolved and Approved:

ATTEST:

Jeff Cole, County Clerk

Terry Frank, County Mayor


Anderson County, Tennessee

Board of Commissioners
RESOLUTION No: 26-6-1260

A RESOLUTION HONORING THE CAREER AND SERVICE OF
DETECTIVE JEFFERY NEAL GILLIAM

WHEREAS, Jeffery Neal Gilliam began his service with the Anderson County Sheriff's Office
(ACSO) on March 17, 1997 as a Corrections Deputy; and

WHEREAS, he was selected to attend the Tennessee Law Enforcement Training Academy and
graduated from the Academy on November 12, 1999; and

WHEREAS, shortly after graduating from the Academy, Detective Gilliam transferred to the
Operations Section where he would faithfully serve as a Patrol Deputy; and

WHEREAS, through his dedication, professionalism and leadership, Detective Gilliam transferred to
the Criminal Investigation Division in July, 2008, a position in which he continued to serve with
distinction until his retirement on June 18, 2026; and

WHEREAS, throughout his career, Detective Gilliam received numerous commendations and letters
of appreciation recognizing his integrity, skill and commitment to public safety; and

WHEREAS, in addition to his law enforcement service, Detective Gilliam served his country in the
United States Marine Corps from August 1981 through October 1986, and in the United States Army
Reserves from October 1986 through January 1989; and

WHEREAS, Detective Gilliam has faithfully and honorably served the citizens of our community
through his military service and his long and distinguished career in law enforcement leaving behind
a legacy of honor, courage and commitment.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Anderson County Board of Commissioners,
meeting in regular session on this 15th day of Sune, 2026, that we hereby recognize Detective Jeffery
Neal Gilliam upon his retirement and express our sincere appreciation for his distinguished law
enforcement career, his honorable military service, and his dedication to the safety and security of our
community.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Anderson County Board of Commissioners hereby
proclaims June 18, 2026, as "Jeffery Neal Gilliam Day" in Anderson County, Tennessee, in
recognition of his many years of faithful and dedicated service to the citizens of Anderson County.

APPROVED, DULY PASSED AND EFFECTIVE this the 15" day of June, 2026.

Denise Palmer, Chair Terry Frank, Mayor
Anderson County Commission
ATTEST:

Jeff Cole, County Clerk


                    ANDERSON COUNTY CLERK
                   JEFF COLE COUNTY CLERK
                 100 MAIN STREET ROOM 111
                       CLINTON TN 37716
                  Telephone     8654576226
                  Fax           8654636892

           Notaries to be elected June 15,2026

DAVID R BRADSHAW              CARLA LONG BURROUGHS
RANDI NICHOLE BROOKS          MELINDA MARLOW
STEPHANIE BRUCE               ALLISON MARIE MORGAN
YVONNE COOK                   ELISE MORRIS
KAYLA M. DAVIS                NATASHA GUINN MYERS
KELSEY ELLIS                  LAURA J ROOP
ROBERT LINCOLN GEORGE         YUSRAA SABREE
MARVIN LEE HAWKINS            KABRINA SMITH
PENNY L HICKS                 MARY ANN WHEAT
MADISYN KNEPFLE


                              PERSONAL SURETY


Anderson County Animal Advisory Committee
Anderson County Courthouse, Room 118A
April 28, 2026, 4:00 PM

MINUTES

Members Present: Commissioner Anthony Allen, Commissioner Sabra Beauchamp,
Commissioner Tracy Wandell, Les Hunt, Steven Phillips

Ex-Officio Members Present: Mayor Terry Frank, Director Damon McKenna, Law Director
Jamie Brooks, County Veterinarian Dr. Mark Garrett

Others present: Ashley Craven, Kim Dixon, Donna Hejtmanek, and several unidentified
citizens

Call to Order. Chairman Allen called the meeting to order at 4:04 p.m.
Prayer/Pledge of Allegiance. Chairman Allen offered a Prayer, and L. Hunt led the Pledge.

Approval of Agenda. Motion by S. Beauchamp and second by L. Hunt to approve
amending the meeting agenda to add discussion about the status of remaining committee
appointments. Motion carried.

Approval of Minutes. Motion by S. Beauchamp and second by T. Wandell to approve the
minutes of the Committee’s organizational meeting. Motion carried.

Appearance of Citizens. Ashley Craven and Donna Hejtmanek

Veterinarian Needed to fill seat. Vacancies left to be filled on the Committee, per
Resolution No. 25-08-1228 (attached) include two citizens at large, a veterinarian, and one
representative of an animal welfare non-profit 4 501(c)3 organization. Law Director Brooks
stated there are no hard deadlines for making the remaining appointments, and the
Committee can conduct business if there is a quorum in attendance at meetings.

YTD Shelter Expenses. Mayor Frank reported Year-To-Date expenses. No action taken.
Animal Shelter Report.

e Addressing Commissioner Josh Anderson’s video on social media. Chairman
Allen said he added this discussion item for transparency after he had watched
the video. Discussion followed. No action taken.

e T.Wandell moved to ask the county to present a breakdown-to-date of all
expenses related to the planning for and construction of the new animal shelter.
S. Phillips made the second. S. Beauchamp stated that the information should


be presented to the county Operations Committee before it comes to this
Committee. T. Wandell and S. Phillips moved to amend their motion to have the
project’s financial information sent to the Operations Committee’s June
meeting. Motion carried.

e County Archivist Zach Foster is in the process of researching history of the
Carden Family and will provide information to the Committee when his research
is completed.

New Business. T. Wandell and S. Phillips said they appreciated the animal control team’s
participation and the public’s participation in last weekend’s Pet Expo at the Carden Farm
Dog Park.

Mayor Frank gave a “high-five” to the animal control team for its ongoing efforts to better
serve the community.

Director McKenna noted that the department is conducting a 5K run, in cooperation with
the City of Clinton, on Saturday, September 19, 2026. He also noted upcoming sessions
for shelter volunteers all of whom are using the Volgistics software to log their volunteer
time.

Unfinished Business. None

Adjourn. There being no other business before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned
without objection, at 5:20 p.m.
















