  ELKO NEW MARKET - PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

  PC Members: Nicole Weber, Melissa Hanson, Brad Smith, Kasey Pipo, Benjamin Kroeplin and
  Harry Anderson
  City Staff: Senior Planner Renee Christianson, Planner Brandon Malecha and City Engineer Luke
  Wheeler


                                                          AGENDA

                                      TUESDAY, MAY 26, 2026 @ 7:00 PM
                                  COUNCIL CHAMBERS – NEW MARKET AREA HALL
                                 601 MAIN STREET, ELKO NEW MARKET, MN 55054

 The City of Elko New Market provides for viewing and participation in the meeting through Zoom.
                            https://us02web.zoom.us/j/87199549316

                    or by phone call @ 1 646 876 9923, using meeting ID # 881 9954 9316


1. CALL TO ORDER

2. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

3. APPROVAL OF AGENDA
   Consider Approval of the Agenda

4. PUBLIC COMMENT (public opportunity to comment on items not listed on the agenda)

5. ANNOUNCEMENTS
   A. None

6. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
   Consider Approval of the following:
   A. April 28, 2026 Meeting Minutes

7. PUBLIC HEARINGS
   A. None

8. GENERAL BUSINESS
   A. 2050 Comprehensive Plan Update
   B. Sexually Oriented Business Review & Analysis
   C. Data Center Update

9. MISCELLANEOUS
   A. Legislative Updates
   B. Community Development Updates
   C. Planning Commission Questions & Comments

10. ADJOURNMENT



BOARD NOTICE:
TO DETERMINE IF A QUORUM WILL BE PRESENT, PLEASE CONTACT ELKO NEW MARKET AREA HALL AT 952-461-2777 IF
YOU ARE UNABLE TO ATTEND

PUBLIC NOTICE:
ANYONE SPEAKING TO THE BOARD SHALL STATE THEIR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD


                                               601 Main Street
                                       Elko New Market, MN 55054
                                   phone: 952-461-2777 fax: 952-461-2782


                                         MEMORANDUM

TO:              PLANNING COMMISSION
FROM:            RENEE CHRISTIANSON, SENIOR PLANNER
RE:              2050 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN UPDATE
DATE:            MAY 26, 2026
                 PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING:          MAY 26, 2026
                 CITY COUNCIL MEETING:                NA
                 60-DAY REVIEW DEADLINE:              NA
                 120-DAY REVIEW DEADLINE              NA


Background / History
A Comprehensive Plan is a long-range planning document that guides how a community will grow and change
over the next 10-20 years. Elko New Market’s current Comprehensive Plan was adopted in 2021 and was
intended to guide growth and development through 2040. Cities in the Metro Area, including Elko New
Market, are required to create Comprehensive Plans, and update them every ten years, to help make
coordinated decisions about land use, development, infrastructure, and community services.

The Metropolitan Council is a regional planning and service agency for the seven-county Twin Cities metro
area. It was created by the state legislature to coordinate issues that cross city boundaries, such as
transportation, wastewater, parks and trails, to ensure that the metro area grows in an orderly, efficient, and
connected manner. The Metropolitan Council has recently updated its regional policy documents, as
documented in Imagine 2050. Metro cities, including Elko New Market, must update their local
comprehensive plans to align with Imagine 2050.

At the Planning Commission Meeting on May 26, 2026, City Staff will provide an introduction/overview of
Image 2050, its impact on the City of Elko New Market, and the City’s requirement to update our
Comprehensive Plan.




2050 Comprehensive Plan Update
Page 1 of 1
May 26, 2026


                                                       601 Main Street
                                                Elko New Market, MN 55054
                                           phone: 952-461-2777 fax: 952-461-2782


                                                  MEMORANDUM

       TO:              PLANNING COMMISSION
       RE:              SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS ANALYSIS
       DATE:            MAY 26, 2026
                        PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING: MAY 26, 2026
                        CITY COUNCIL MEETING:        N/A
                        60-DAY REVIW DEADLINE:       N/A

       Government Regulation of Adult Uses / Sexually Oriented Businesses
       State and local governments use zoning laws and ordinances to regulate the use of land within their borders.
       A government can impose controls on where certain uses and businesses are permitted to locate, but
       attempting to prevent certain businesses from locating altogether may violate the rights to free speech
       protected by the First Amendment. Restricting the location of adult entertainment businesses often results in
       issues relating to the First Amendment. Adult entertainment businesses typically include businesses where
       nude or semi-nude dancing occurs, where adult movies are shown or sold, or where sexually oriented products
       are sold. Cities typically regulate adult businesses because the businesses cause adverse secondary effects, such
       as increased crime and decreased property values.

       The courts have ruled that sexual expression which is indecent but not obscene is protected by First
       Amendment, and government cannot totally restrict efforts to access this type of speech or communication.
       A community cannot “zone out” adult uses completely or restrict them to small and highly inaccessible areas.
       A community can, however, place restrictions on their location, such as requiring minimum distances to
       schools or daycare facilities, or restricting them to certain zoning districts. Based on the 1986 United States
       Supreme Court holding in City of Renton v. Playtime Theaters upholding a zoning ordinance regulating
       sexually oriented businesses that made only 5% of the City available for such uses, many cities have used a
       5% criteria in establishing their own zoning ordinances. Case law over the past few decades has established
       that 5% of the total land area of the community is a reasonable benchmark to provide for such uses. Although
       5% has been used as a benchmark, neither the United States Supreme Court, nor the constitution mandates a
       community make a minimum of 5% of land available for adult uses and courts have typically reviewed the
       characteristics of the City in varying downward from that benchmark.

       It is important for communities to review their ordinances related to adult uses from time to time, to ensure
       that opportunities are provided for their location. The City of Elko New Market last conducted a review of
       the City’s ordinances related to adult uses in 2019. Minor changes were made to the City Code following that
       2019 review. Because the City of Elko New Market has annexed several parcels of land since the ordinance
       was last reviewed, Staff is recommending that the ordinance be reviewed again at this time to ensure that the
       City’s ordinances comply with state law.
Sexually Oriented Business Analysis 2026
Page 1 of 11
May 26, 2026


    Elko Strip Club & Lawsuit / 2002
    In 2001, the City of Elko adopted ordinances regulating sexually oriented businesses through licensing and
    zoning for sexually oriented businesses. Shortly thereafter, the City of Elko was faced with a strip club that
    had illegally opened in the property currently occupied by the End Zone (formerly Glenno’s Pizza). The
    entity that established the business did not comply with the City’s licensing requirements and when the City
    closed the establishment, the owner and operator of the strip club sued the City alleging that the City’s
    licensing ordinance was unconstitutional and requested an injunction against the application of the ordinance.
    The case did not challenge the constitutionality of the City’s zoning ordinance as the use was allowed in the
    location where the business was established. The district court ultimately concluded that the City’s ordinance
    was constitutional and denied the injunction. Thereafter, the City made minor adjustments to its ordinances
    in 2004. Included as an attachment to this report is a summary of the Minnesota Court of Appeals decision
    regarding the matter: CITY OF ELKO v. Albert LaFontaine, Defendant.

    Current City Ordinances Relating to Adult Entertainment
    The City’s Zoning Ordinance defines adult uses as Sexually Oriented Businesses (principal and accessory).
    The definitions related to Sexually Oriented Businesses are included as an attachment to this report. The
    following are basic criteria for locating a Sexually Oriented Business within the city limits:

        •   Principal sexually oriented businesses are NOT ALLOWED within 200 feet of:
                o Other sexually oriented businesses
                o Schools
                o Churches
                o Daycare facilities
                o Public parks
                o Residential zoning districts

        •   Principal sexually oriented businesses are also NOT ALLOWED within these districts:
                o Residential districts -> ALL (R1, R2, R3, R4, R5)
                o Business districts -> B1 and B2
                o Special Districts > PUD (if the underlying zoning is residential, B1 or B2)
                o Special districts -> UR, INS, and FP

        •   Principal sexually oriented businesses ARE ALLOWED within these districts:
                o Business districts > B4, B5, B6, B7
                o Industrial districts > I1, I2
                o Special districts → PUD (if the underlying zoning is B4, B5, B6, B7, I1 or I2)

    Analysis
    Based on the above noted criteria, City staff performed an analysis to determine where a Sexually Oriented
    Businesses could locate in the City, and what percentage of the City’s overall land area is available for such
    uses to locate on. As part of the analysis it was necessary to map the locations where they are not allowed
    (based on above criteria); the individual maps that depict the 200’ buffer around schools, churches, daycares,
    and parks are depicted below as an attachment to this report. Based on the analysis it appears that there are
    three industrial zoned parcels, and six commercially zoned parcels where a Sexually Oriented Use could locate,
    and a total of 126.32 acres which comprises 6.34% of the City’s overall land area.




6
    Sexually Oriented Business Analysis 2026
    Page 2 of 11
    May 26, 2026


                              Locations Where Sexually Oriented Business Are Permitted
                               Based on Elko New Market Zoning Ordinance 5/21/26




6
    Sexually Oriented Business Analysis 2026
    Page 3 of 11
    May 26, 2026


    City Staff Recommendation
    The overall land area currently available for a Sexually Oriented Use to locate in the City is 6.34%, therefore
    meeting the suggested benchmark of 5%. The City’s land area that is available for Sexually Oriented Uses to
    locate is adequate and defensible. Staff notes that the City has designated ample amounts of commercial and
    industrially guided land in the City’s future growth area (2040 Comprehensive Land Use Plan). As commercial
    development expands along Co Rd 2, more land will become available for Sexually Oriented Businesses to
    locate. Staff recommends that the City continue to monitor the amount of land available for Sexually Oriented
    Uses as the City grows.

    City Attorney Recommendation
    The City Attorney prepared a very informative memorandum for the City of Monticello in 2011 regarding
    Adult Uses, which is included as an attachment to this memorandum. Although the memorandum is a bit
    dated, it contains a lot of pertinent and valuable information. The City Attorney has reviewed the analysis
    performed by staff and has also opined that the 6.34% of land area available for Sexually Oriented Businesses
    is adequate and defensible.

    Requested Action
    Staff are seeking feedback and comments from the Commission on the information provided.

    Attachments
        • Definitions Associated with Sexually Oriented Businesses
        • Various Maps Associated with Analysis
        • Zoning Regulations of Adult Uses, League of MN Cities (1 page)
        • February 23, 2011 Memorandum by City Attorney Andrea McDowell Poehler (7 pages)
        • Court of Appeals of Minnesota, City of Elko vs. Albert LaFontaine (9 pages)




6
    Sexually Oriented Business Analysis 2026
    Page 4 of 11
    May 26, 2026


                              SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS - ANALYSIS MAPS

                                               School Buffer – 200’




                                               Church Buffer – 200’




6
    Sexually Oriented Business Analysis 2026
    Page 5 of 11
    May 26, 2026


91

91

Sexually Orie
Page 6 of 11
May 26, 202:



Residential Zoning District Buffer — 200’

Sexually Oriented Busin
Page 7 of 11
May 26, 2026



                                  Locations Where Sexually Oriented Business Are Permitted
                                   Based on Elko New Market Zoning Ordinance 5/21/26




Sexually Oriented Business Analysis 2026
Page 8 of 11
May 26, 2026


                                        MEMORANDUM

TO:            Angela Schumann

CC:            Steve Grittman

FROM:          Andrea McDowell Poehler

DATE:          Wednesday, February 23, 2011

RE:            Monticello – Adult Businesses and Zoning


Staff has asked this firm to review whether recent case law has addressed the issue of City
zoning ordinances limiting the areas in which adult businesses can lawfully operate.
Unfortunately there is no “bright line” test or clear answer to this question. A review of recent
cases is important to gather general information on how courts are analyzing the zoning question.

I. General Rule

The United States Supreme Court in the City of Renton v. Playtime Theaters, Inc. case in 1986
stated that the standard for determining what the proper zoning is for adult businesses is whether
an ordinance allows for reasonable alternative avenues of communication. In applying this
standard, the Supreme Court determined that, under the specific facts of the City of Renton, the
ordinance provided reasonable alternative avenues of communication where “five percent of the
entire land area” of the city was available for adult theater sites. Although cities have used the
5% figure from the Renton case as a benchmark, neither the United States Supreme Court, nor
the Constitution mandates communities make a minimum of 5% percentage of land available for
the operation of adult businesses or any specific percentage at all.

Thus, it is important for cities to review case law to understand the factors that a court may
consider when determining when reasonable alternative avenues of communication are made
available under an ordinance. Most cases look beyond a mere percentage to other factors, such
as the suitability of the areas purported to be available for commercial development, to determine
whether a reasonable alternative channel for adult communication exists in the community.

II.    Total Land Available to Adult Uses Exceeds 5 percent.

A.     Ordinance Found Constitutional.

        Most of the authority since Renton has addressed factual scenarios where more than five
percent of the city’s land is available for adult uses. Where more than five percent is available for
adult uses courts have seemed generally willing to find the sexually oriented business ordinance
constitutional.




156187v1                                         1


       In the 1991 case of Alexander v. Minneapolis, the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld
a zoning ordinance limiting adult uses to 6.6% of commercial land.

       In 2006, the Minnesota Court of Appeals similarly addressed the percentage of land
available for adult-use businesses under a county zoning ordinance in County of Morrison v.
Wheeler, and found the ordinance constitutional. The adult-use business owners argued only five
percent of the total land in the county was available for adult uses. The county responded by
arguing 64 percent of all commercial property in the county was available for adult-use
businesses. Id. In finding the area to represent a constitutional alternative source for operating of
an adult use business, the court stated “[t]he law requires at least some chance of an alternative
source; it does not require that it be immediately available and cheap.”

         Quite a bit of the case law addresses zoning ordinances where more than five percent of a
city’s land area is available for an adult business. See e.g., D.H.L., 6 F. Supp. at 78-79 (finding
10.4 percent reasonable where additional factors indicated an adult business had a reasonable
opportunity to operate); Alexander v. Minneapolis, 928 F.2d 278, 284 (8th Cir. 1991) (finding
6.6 percent reasonable); Buzzetti v. City of New York, 140 F.3d 134 (2d Cir. 1997) (finding 11
percent reasonable); Specialty Malls v. City of Tampa, 916 F. Supp. 1222, 1231 (M.D. Fla. 1996)
(finding 7.5 percent adequate because the ordinance “not only [met], but exceed[ed] the First
Amendment protection required by Renton); Centerfold Club, Inc. v. St. Petersburg, 969 F.
Supp. 1288, 1303 (M.D. Fla. 1997) (finding 6.3 percent adequate).

II.    Total Land Available to Adult Uses is Less Than 5 percent.

A.     Upheld as Constitutional

       Some courts have upheld ordinances that had the practical effect of allowing adult uses
 on less than five percent of total land or of land zoned for businesses use.

        In Schneider v. Ramsey, the District Court for the District of Minnesota found an
ordinance provided reasonable alternative channels for communication where 2.5 percent of the
total land in the rural community was available for adult uses. Approximately 88 percent of the
city was zoned for residential use, meaning that approximately 35 percent of the land zoned for
commercial use and 9.7 percent of the general urban area was available for adult uses.

        In City of Crystal v. Fantasy House, Inc., the Minnesota Court of Appeals evaluated a
permanent zoning ordinance allowing for adult use businesses in “.9 [percent] of the land in [the
city] and 15 [percent] of the city’s industrial and commercial zones.” In overruling the district
court’s finding that the available land for adult uses was insufficient, the Court of Appeals noted
“the limited area available [for adult uses] in [the city] is a result of the city’s overwhelmingly
residential character and conservative planning practices.” Specifically, only six percent of
the entire city was zoned for commercial or industrial uses. The city’s conservative planning
practices meant that “any difficulty that [the business] has in locating in [the city] stems from
difficulties faced by all prospective real estate purchasers [and that] the permanent ordinance
provides reasonable alternative avenues of communication and is constitutional.”




156187v1                                          2


        Following the United States Supreme Court’s holding in Renton, courts across the United
States have found that ordinances restricting adult use to less than five percent of the area
covered by the ordinance are reasonable and pass constitutional muster. See e.g., Casanova
Entm’t Group, Inc. v. City of New Rochelle, 165 Fed. Appx. 72, 73-74 (2d Cir. 2006) (upholding
an ordinance that had the effect of limiting adult uses to 2.77 percent of the city); Z.J. Gifts D-4,
L.L.C. v. City of Littleton, 311 F.3d 1220, 1240 (10th Cir. 2002), vacated on other grounds by
124 S. Ct. 2219, 541 U.S. 774 (holding availability of approximately one percent of city land
was sufficient where over 20 sites were available for adult businesses and given the small
population of the city and that only one adult business was located in the city)1; North Ave.
Novelties, 88 F.3d at 445 (holding the plaintiff business’s reliance on the fact that less than one
to three percent of land within the city’s limits was available was insufficient to find alternative
locations were unavailable); Lakeland Lounge v. City of Jackson, Michigan, 973 F.2d 1255 (5th
Cir. 1992) (holding availability of 1.2 percent of the city was sufficient); Allno Enters. v.
Baltimore County, 10 Fed. Appx. 197 (4th Cir. 1991) (upholding zoning ordinance leaving .16
percent of total acres in county available); M.J. Entm’t Enters. v. City of Mt. Vernon, 328 F.
Supp. 2d 480 (S.D.N.Y. 2004) (granting summary judgment in favor of defendant city where .67
percent of city was available for adult uses); S & G News, Inc. v. City of Southgate, 638 F. Supp.
1060 (E.D. Mich. 1986) (holding 2.3 percent of the county’s land area was sufficient);
Stringfellow’s of New York v. City of New York, 91 N.Y.2d 382, 403, 694 N.E.2d 407, 419
(1998) (holding 4 percent of total land zoned for business in a city was sufficient).

        In Casanova Entertainment Group v. City of New Rochelle, the Second Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed the district court’s denial of a topless dancing nightclub’s request for a
preliminary injunction enjoining enforcement of local ordinances barring topless dancing at its
current location. In holding the appellant nightclub did not show a substantial likelihood of
success on the merits, the court noted that while only 0.04 percent of the city’s total land area
was available for adult-entertainment businesses, the “statistic [could] not be viewed in isolation
[because the city was] a highly developed residential suburb with less than 5 [percent] of its
total land area available for any commercial use. Six lots, representing 2.77 percent of land
zoned for “[l]ight [i]ndustrial development,” however, were available for adult-entertainment
purposes. In holding that the nightclub was unlikely to succeed on the merits, the court impliedly
held 2.77 percent is a sufficient alternative area where zoning ordinances restrict adult uses.

        In Stringfellow’s of New York v. City of New York, 91 N.Y.2d 382, 403, 694 N.E.2d 407,
419 (1998), New York’s highest state court found a zoning ordinance limiting adult
entertainment establishments in certain zoning districts was constitutionally permissible where
“about 4 [percent of the total commercial land was available] when reduced by land
encumbered by properties that are unlikely to be developed for commercial use.”




156187v1                                          3


B.     Struck Down as Unconstitutional

         Some of the case law addressing a zoning ordinance where less than five percent of a
city’s land area is available has held the ordinance unconstitutional. See e.g., Franklin Jefferson,
Ltd. v. City of Columbus, 244 F. Supp. 2d 83 (S.D. Ohio 2003) (finding ordinance with effect of
limiting adult uses to 0.047 percent of the city’s land and allowing 11 sites for adult use
violated the United States Constitution); International Eateries of Am., Inc. v. Broward County,
726 F. Supp. 1556, 1567 (S.C. Fla. 1987) (finding 0.03 percent of the county’s land available
to be inadequate). These examples, however, seem particularly extreme in that the cities
attempted to limit adult uses to the extent that less than one half of one percent was available
(0.047 percent and 0.03 percent).

        In 1990 in the Brookpark News & Books v. Cleveland case, the Ohio Court of Appeals
found that a city’s zoning ordinance unconstitutional where only 3.6 acres of 48,384 acres, or
seven one-hundred-thousandths of one percent (.00007 percent) of acres, in the city were
available for adult uses. The court held that “[t]his percentage of available adult usage in a city
the size of Cleveland on its face is unduly restrictive and significantly curtails freedom of
expression and access to protected speech.”

        In 2002, the Federal District Court for the Western District of Michigan noted in Exec.
Arts Studio, Inc. v. City of Grand Rapids, that it was generally wary of finding an ordinance
limiting adult uses to less than one percent of the city’s acreage or to fewer than a dozen sites
constitutional. The court concluded by finding a zoning ordinance limiting adult uses to less than
one-half of one percent of the city’s commercial property unconstitutional.

        In 2006, the Federal District Court for the District of Minnesota weighed in the question
of adult uses in Northshor Experience, Inc. v. City of Duluth, Minn. On the city’s motion for
summary judgment, the court concluded that an ordinance making 4.34% of the city available
for adult uses was not per se reasonable or constitutional because it did not provide a reasonable
alternative avenue for communication. The court evaluated photographs provided by the
plaintiff adult business and found the “available land” was occupied by the airport or
“heavily industrial, either lacking infrastructure and inaccessible or occupied by an
existing heavy industrial use, such as a manufacturing plant or mineral piles.” As such, the
court stated that its evaluation of the reasonableness of available alternative locations and the
constitutionality of allowing adult uses in 4.24% of the city had to come further in the litigation.

        Ultimately, this authority cannot be taken to mean that ordinances restricting adult uses to
less than five percent of a city’s land are per se unreasonable. Instead, the authority is better
taken to mean that there is no bright line separating reasonableness from unreasonableness and
additional factors necessarily inform a finding of reasonableness.




156187v1                                          4


III.   No Bright Line Test.

       Some Courts have been reticent to find that five percent represents a generally-applicable
guidepost. As such, the courts have found that additional inquiry into a particular zoning
ordinance and its affect on availability is necessary.

        In PAO Xiong v. City of Moorhead, Minn. the District Court for the District of Minnesota
held in 2009 that it was unable to determine whether an available area of 6.25% of the City’s
total land area and 29% of the city’s commercial and industrial areas was sufficient to
constitute a reasonable alternative avenue for communication. On the city’s motion for summary
judgment, the court found it had insufficient information because the parties disputed whether
the sites were platted and accessible by road, the character of the areas had not been
established, and the court could not determine whether the space available was sufficient to leave
the “quantity and accessibility of speech substantially intact.”

         The plaintiff business owner in North Ave. Novelties v. City of Chicago relied on expert
testimony to find that less than one percent of the land within the city limits was available for
adult use. In relying on Renton and other adult use zoning cases, the plaintiff business owner
argued the city’s availability represented a smaller acreage than other approved areas. The city’s
expert alternatively testified that between one and three percent of the city was available for
adult uses. In rejecting the plaintiff business owner’s comparisons to other cases, the court held
“that the amount of acreage, standing alone, is largely irrelevant.” The court noted that the
constitutional requirement of a reasonable opportunity to do business “can, and most likely does,
result in vastly different acreage percentages [between regions].” These differences, however, “in
no way imply that the regions with lower percentages are acting unconstitutionally.”

         In M.J. Entertainment Enterprises v. City of Mt. Vernon, the District Court for the
Southern District of New York granted summary judgment to the defendant city where a zoning
ordinance made only .67 percent of a city available for adult uses. The court noted that the
constitution does not mandate a minimum percentage of land be made available for certain
types of speech and that the constitution only requires a location provide “a reasonable
opportunity to disseminate the speech at issue.” The district court judge then noted that at the
time alternative avenues of communication were only found constitutionally insufficient in one
of two circumstances. First, where there were no sites available. Alternatively, the judge wrote
that alternatives are found insufficient where the zoning scheme requires an existing adult
business to relocate to a particular area, prohibits an adult business’s establishment within 1,000
feet of a school or religious institution, and the ordinance is specifically enacted to create a
buffer between the existing business and a school.

IV. Factors Considered in Determining Reasonable Alternative Avenues of
Communication are Available.

        Some courts have looked to a variety of factors in determining whether reasonable
alternative avenues of communication have been made available.




156187v1                                         5


A.     Number of Sites Available

        As an alternative to evaluating the percentage of land area available for adult businesses,
some courts have found that the question of constitutionally reasonable alternative locations can
be answered by the number of locations available that could accommodate additional
locations. See e.g., Diamond v. City of Taft, 215 F.3d 1052 (9th Cir. 2000) (holding where seven
sites were available, and three of those sites could house adult uses simultaneously, based on
the commercial real estate market in the city, the three sites created a constitutionally acceptable
alternative); R.V.S., LLC v. City of Rockford, 266 F. Supp. 2d 798 (N.D. Ill. 2003), rev’d on other
grounds by 361 F.3d 402 (7th Cir. 2004) (holding 11 or 12 sites were available which provided
a reasonable opportunity to disseminate the adult speech in this particular community); 3570
East Foothill Blvd., Inc. v. Pasadena, 912 F. Supp. 1257, 1265 (C.D. Cal. 1995), aff’d, 99 F.3d
1147 (holding an ordinance allowing for the opening of eleven additional adult businesses
was a reasonable opportunity where only one adult business currently existed).

        Conversely, however, this parcel availability approach may indicate that a zoning
ordinance unconstitutionally limits the ability of a sexually oriented business to operate. See e.g.,
Janra Enters. v. Reno, 818 F. Supp. 1361, 1364 (D. Nev. 1993) (finding three parcels
insufficient).

B.     Whether Proposed Sites are Physically and Legally Available

         As in PAO Xiong, the Federal Court of Appeals for the 2nd Circuit in TJS of N.Y. v. Town
of Smithtown evaluated in 2010 “whether proposed sites are physically and legally available, and
whether they are part of an actual commercial real estate market in the municipality.” Noting that
“[s]everal factual considerations underlie the question of whether sites are part of an actual real
estate market[,]” the court evaluated the likelihood of the sites becoming available, the
physical characteristics of the sites such as accessibility to the public, infrastructure, and
suitability to “some generic commercial enterprise.” Where these criteria are met, the sites
“can qualify as available, even if they are in industrial or manufacturing zones.” Requiring
the proposed adult business to develop the site does not render the site unsuitable; however,
“[w]here the physical features of a site or the manner in which it has been developed are totally
incompatible with any average commercial business” or there is a dearth of basic infrastructure
critical to private development.

         It is important to note, that the failure of a particular site to meet the sizing, pricing, or
logistical needs of an adult business is irrelevant in determining the overall geographic
availability for adult uses. See e.g., TJS, 598 F.3d at 31-32 (citing Renton, 475 U.S. at 54;
Topanga Press, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles, 989 F.2d 1524, 1532 (9th Cir. 1993)) (stating
availability of a particular site is not limited by the site’s best suitability to a “big box”
enterprise); Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 311 F.3d at 1240 (holding only industrial, warehouse, office,
and shopping centers were not part of relevant commercial real estate market); Isbell v. City of
San Diego, 258 F.3d 1108, 1112 (9th Cir. 2001) (rejecting argument that relevant alternative real
estate market must exclude parcels occupied by businesses like car dealership because potential
profits, overhead costs, and infeasibility of use were not appropriate factors in evaluating the
availability of alternative channels); Allno Enters., 10 Fed. Appx. 197 (4th Cir. 1991) (holding



156187v1                                           6


the unsupported assertion of an adult business operator that the owners of land would lease only
to industrial operations were not an appropriate consideration in determining overall
availability).


                                         CONCLUSION

         The authority from Minnesota case law and case law outside of Minnesota indicates that
multiple factors need to be taken into consideration in addition to a mere percentage of
availability. Courts review the specific facts of a particular city to determine whether alternative
avenues of communication have been made available to adult businesses, such as the percentage
of total land area devoted to commercial/industrial and whether a reasonable portion of the
commercial/industrial land available, whether a reasonable number of sites have been made
available, and whether sites are physically and legally available. As is evident in the court cases
noted above, there is no clear bright line test regarding what is “reasonable.” Courts have the
hardest time finding ordinances allowing adult uses on less than one percent of land
constitutional. Clearly, the “safest” area for a zoning ordinance, however, appears to be above
the five percent of total land area available as approved in Renton. Below the five percent, courts
seem to approve ordinances allowing adult uses on more than two to 2.5 percent of the land more
often than not, but courts will make a detailed analysis of the factors noted above.




156187v1                                         7


 RELEVANT LINKS:
                                      For example, state law allows a local governmental unit to, by ordinance,
                                      prohibit parking on any street or highway to create a fire lane, or to
                                      accommodate heavy traffic during morning and afternoon rush hours.
                                      Typically, a city zoning ordinance will require a certain number of off-
                                      street parking spaces for each type of use. For example, an ordinance may
                                      require a landowner in a commercial district to provide four parking
                                      spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. of useable floor space. Many cities find it helpful
                                      to use a table to illustrate parking requirements in their zoning ordinances.

                                      F.         Historic Preservation
    Minn. Stat. § 138.74.             Historic preservation ordinances seek to protect and maintain buildings
                                      and sites of significance to history and pre-history, architecture and
                                      culture. Certain cities, which contain historic districts established by state
                                      statute, specifically have authority under state law to create zoning
                                      regulations for their historic districts that:
                                      •        regulate the construction, alteration, demolition and use of structures
                                               within the district.
                                      •        prevent the construction of buildings of a character not in conformity
                                               with that of the historic district.
                                      •        allow a city to remove blighting influences, including signs, unsightly
                                               structures and debris, incompatible with the maintenance of the
                                               physical well-being of the district.
                                      •        allow a city “to adopt other measures as necessary to protect, preserve
                                               and perpetuate the district.”
    Minn. Stat. § 138.73.             Currently state law lists 25 official historic districts as historic districts.
    State, by Powderly v.
    Erickson, 285 N.W.2d 84
                                      Cities that do not contain official historic districts, may preserve their
    (Minn. 1979).                     historic properties and districts through local zoning ordinances. Often this
                                      occurs by a city establishing a standalone district or an overlay district
                                      with specific design standards. The Minnesota Supreme Court has upheld
                                      historic preservation ordinances as a reasonable use of a city’s police
                                      powers to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.

                                      G. Zoning regulation of adult uses
    Pao Xiong v. City of
    Moorhead, 641 F.Supp.2d
                                      Adult uses typically refer to bookstores, theaters, bars, and other
    822 (D.Minn. 2009).               establishments where sexually explicit books, magazines and videos are
                                      sold, or sexually explicit films or live performances are viewed. Cities can
                                      control the location of adult uses through content neutral zoning
                                      ordinances to reduce their negative secondary effects.




League of Minnesota Cities Information Memo:                                                                     7/26/2024
Zoning Guide for Cities                                                                                            Page 21


 RELEVANT LINKS:
    Minn. Stat. § 617.242.            A state law, enacted in 2006, required that anyone intending to open an
    Northshor Experience, Inc. v.     adult use business provide notice, 60 days in advance, to the city where the
    City of Duluth, MN, 442
    F.Supp.2d 713 (D. Minn.
                                      business will locate. The law included numerous other provisions focused
    2006).                            on regulation of adult use businesses. In 2006, the federal district court in
                                      Minnesota reviewed a challenge to the city of Duluth’s adult use ordinance
                                      and found the ordinance invalid based on noncompliance with the
                                      Municipal Planning Act. Since the court invalidated the ordinance, state
                                      law generally would have applied; however, the court found the
                                      constitutional challenge of the new state law legitimate (questioning
                                      whether content neutral) and granted an injunction against the city from
    Unconstitutional and
    Preempted Statutes.
                                      enforcing the new law. Since then, the Revisor of Statutes has recognized
                                      the state law as substantively unconstitutional, making it so cities should
                                      not rely on state law as a mechanism for regulating adult entertainment
                                      establishments, but rather should adopt adult use ordinances supported by
                                      findings of furthering health, welfare and safety of the community.
                                      Cities may want to consider taking proactive measure to adopting local
                                      adult use regulations. However, because of the legal complexities of
                                      adopting any regulations of adult uses, a city should involve the city
                                      attorney in the drafting of any adult use ordinances.

                                      H. Restricting Feedlots
    Minn. Stat. § 462.357, subd.
    1g.
                                      Zoning ordinances that regulate feedlots must comply with specifics
                                      procedures outlined in the Municipal Planning Act. When a city considers
                                      adopting a new or amended feedlot ordinance, it must notify the
                                      Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the commissioner of Agriculture
                                      at the beginning of the process. A local zoning ordinance that requires a
                                      setback for new feedlots from existing residential areas also must require
                                      that new residential areas have the same setbacks from existing feedlots in
                                      agricultural districts.
                                      This requirement does not pertain to a new residence built to replace an
                                      existing residence. A city may grant a variance from this requirement.
    Minn. Stat. § 462.357 subd.
    1g(a).
                                      When amending or adopting ordinances related to feedlots, cities must
                                      provide additional notice to the state before adopting such an ordinance.
                                      A city proposing to adopt a new, or amend an existing, feedlot ordinance
                                      must inform the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the
                                      Commissioner of Agriculture no later than the date notice is given of the
                                      first hearing related to the ordinance.
    Minn. Stat. § 462.357, subd.
    1g(b)(2).
                                      Prior to final approval of a feedlot related zoning ordinance, a city council
                                      may request, a city prepare a report on the economic effects from specific
                                      provisions in the feedlot ordinance.




League of Minnesota Cities Information Memo:                                                                7/26/2024
Zoning Guide for Cities                                                                                       Page 22


1/29/2019                                                            CITY OF ELKO v. Albert LaFontaine, Defendant. | FindLaw
                                                                                                                                           Not a Legal Professional? Visit our consumer site




                                                                                                                                                  Search FindLaw
  CASES & CODES         PRACTICE MANAGEMENT              JOBS & CAREERS         NEWSLETTERS            BLOGS          LAW TECHNOLOGY

                                               Forms       Lawyer Marketing     Corporate Counsel      Law Students      JusticeMail      Reference




      FindLaw   Caselaw    Minnesota   MN Ct. App.     CITY OF ELKO v. Albert LaFontaine, Defendant.                               FindLaw Career Center
    CITY OF ELKO v. Albert LaFontaine, Defendant.                                                                                  Select a Job Title
                                                                                                                                       Attorney
        Print                                                                             Font size:      A    A       Reset           Corporate Counsel
                                                                                                                                       Academic
                                        Court of Appeals of Minnesota.
                                                                                                                                       Judicial Clerk
    CITY OF ELKO, Respondent, v. Emad ABED, et al., Appellants, Albert LaFontaine,                                                     Summer Associate
                                                                                                                                       Intern
                                                       Defendant.                                                                      Law Librarian

                                                     No. A03-1050.                                                                     Search Jobs Post a Job | Careers Home

                                               Decided: April 13, 2004                                                                                                            View More

    Considered and decided by ANDERSON, Presiding Judge; STONEBURNER, Judge; and HUDSON, Judge.
    James J. Thomson, Mary D. Tietjen, Kennedy & Graven, Chartered, Minneapolis, MN, for respondent. Randall
    D.B. Tigue, Randall Tigue Law Office, P.A., Minneapolis, MN, for appellants.
    OPINION

    In 2001, the City of Elko City Council adopted Ordinance No. 92 establishing licensing requirements for
    sexually oriented businesses. In 2002, the City of Elko served and filed a summons and complaint seeking an
    injunction to enforce the ordinance against appellants, Sphinx Properties, L.L.C., and Circus Circus, L.L.C.,
    who were operating an adult establishment that offered nude dancing. Both parties moved for summary
    judgment and the district court granted summary judgment to respondent City of Elko on all claims. On
    appeal, appellants challenge the constitutionality of the ordinance and argue that the ordinance is a licensing
    scheme that is a prior restraint on speech in violation of the First Amendment. Likewise, appellants argue
    that the disqualification and disclosure provisions, the license and investigation fees, the distance restrictions,
    and the prohibition against gratuities are all impermissible prior restraints on speech. We affirm.

    FACTS

    On November 19, 1999, the Elko City Council adopted Ordinance No. 79, imposing a temporary moratorium on
    new adult establishments in the city. The city council directed the city planner, Stephen Grittman, to review
    studies relating to the adverse effects of sexually oriented businesses. Grittman reviewed several studies
    relating to the impact of sexually oriented businesses on communities, including a report that contained
    information from studies conducted in Minneapolis, St. Paul, Phoenix, and Indianapolis. Copies of these
    studies were disseminated to both the planning commission and the city council. Grittman prepared a draft
    resolution and findings for the City of Elko planning commission and city council that outlined and
    summarized conclusions relating to the potential adverse secondary effects 1 that sexually oriented businesses
    would have within the city.

    Based on findings in the draft resolution, on November 21, 2000, the planning commission recommended that
    the city council establish zoning and license controls to minimize secondary effects of sexually oriented
    businesses and provide those businesses a reasonable opportunity to locate and operate in the city. On
    December 4, 2000, the city council accepted that recommendation and adopted Grittman's draft resolution.
    Based on the findings in the resolution, on August 6, 2001, the city council adopted Ordinance No. 92,
    establishing licensing requirements for sexually oriented businesses.

    Ordinance No. 92 prohibits the operation of a sexually oriented business within the city without first obtaining
    a sexually oriented business license. The ordinance sets forth the procedure for obtaining a license and also
    provides that individuals convicted of certain crimes are disqualified from licensure for a period of time. The
    ordinance authorizes the city council to set an annual license and investigation fee; the license fee was set at
    $5,000 and the investigation fee at $1,500. The ordinance also contains a distance requirement for dancers,
    and a requirement that no gratuity may be given to any semi-nude dancer or performer.


https://caselaw.findlaw.com/mn-court-of-appeals/1423980.html                                                                                                                                   1/9


1/29/2019                                                            CITY OF ELKO v. Albert LaFontaine, Defendant. | FindLaw
    On December 21, 2001, appellant Sphinx Properties, L.L.C. (Sphinx), purchased a restaurant/bar in the city.
    Sphinx leased the property to appellant Circus Circus, L.L.C. (Circus Circus). Appellant Emad Abed (Abed) is
    the president and sole shareholder of both companies. Natalie Brisson (Brisson) is the vice president in
    charge of dance operations for Circus Circus. Brisson has been convicted of misdemeanor prostitution, thus
    the ordinance disqualifies her and Circus Circus from licensure for a period of time as long as she remains an
    officer of Circus Circus.

    In September 2002, Sphinx and Circus Circus sued the city in federal district court alleging that the ordinance
    is unconstitutional. In October 2002, Albert LaFontaine acquired an interest in the property and claimed it
    was sovereign tribal land exempt from local ordinances and regulations and began offering nude dancing at the
    property. On November 1, 2002, the Elko police issued citations to three female dancers for dancing nude in
    violation of the ordinance, and issued a citation to a manager for serving alcohol while nude dancing was
    occurring, in violation of a separate ordinance. On November 8, 2002, the federal district court denied the
    city's motion for a temporary restraining order and suggested that any alleged violations of the ordinance
    should be heard in state court. On November 12, 2002, the city revoked Circus Circus's liquor license for non-
    payment of license fees and delinquent property taxes. On November 14, 2002, special agents of the
    Minnesota Alcohol and Gambling Enforcement Division observed alcohol continuing to be served at the
    property.

    On November 19, 2002, the city served and filed a complaint seeking an injunction to enforce Ordinance No.
    92. On November 26, 2002, the district court issued a temporary injunction prohibiting appellants from,
    inter alia, operating a sexually oriented business without a license. At some point after the temporary
    injunction was issued, LaFontaine ceased to have an interest in the property.

    On December 13, 2002, appellants filed an answer and counterclaim challenging the constitutionality of
    Ordinance No. 92. On February 25, 2003, appellants moved to dissolve the temporary injunction and sought
    an injunction prohibiting the city from enforcing the ordinance. The district court treated the motion and
    city's response as cross-motions for summary judgment on the merits.

    On June 3, 2003, the district court denied appellants' motion for summary judgment and granted the city's
    motion, thereby concluding that Ordinance No. 92 is constitutional. This appeal follows.

    ISSUES

    I.    Did the district court err in holding that Ordinance No. 92 is a content-neutral time, place and manner
    regulation?

    II.    Did the district court err in holding that the provision providing for license disqualification based on prior
    criminal convictions of certain offenses is valid?

    III. Did the district court err in holding that the disclosure requirements are valid?

    IV.    Did the district court err in holding that the license and investigation fees are valid?

    V. Did the district court err in holding that the distance restrictions and prohibition of gratuities are valid?

    ANALYSIS

    I

         Summary judgment is appropriate only where there are no genuine issues of material fact and a party is
    entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Minn. R. Civ. P. 56.03. On appeal from summary judgment, we
    examine two questions: “whether there are any genuine issues of material fact and whether the lower courts
    erred in their application of the law.” Cummings v. Koehnen, 568 N.W.2d 418, 420 (Minn.1997). The facts
    are undisputed; therefore, this court's review is whether the district court erred in its application of the law.
    On appeal from a grant of summary judgment, we review questions of law de novo. Christensen v. Eggen, 577
    N.W.2d 221, 224 (Minn.1998). “The constitutionality of an ordinance is a question of law, which this court
    reviews de novo.” State v. Botsford, 630 N.W.2d 11, 15 (Minn.App.2001), review denied (Minn. Sept. 11,
    2001). The party opposing summary judgment “must do more than rest on mere averments.” DLH, Inc. v.
    Russ, 566 N.W.2d 60, 71 (Minn.1997).

    Appellants first argue that the district court erred in analyzing the constitutionality of Ordinance No. 92 under
    the more lenient time, place, and manner standard, because the ordinance is a prior restraint on speech, and as
    such, it carries a heavy presumption against its constitutional validity. Appellants further contend that even if
    Ordinance No. 92 is a time, place and manner regulation, in City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535
    U.S. 425, 122 S.Ct. 1728, 152 L.Ed.2d 670 (2002), the United States Supreme Court heightened the evidentiary
    burden required to sustain such ordinances under the so-called secondary effects theory. Appellants argue
    that they cast doubt on the evidence the city used to support the adoption of the ordinance, and under the
    heightened evidentiary burden articulated in Alameda Books, the burden shifted to the city to produce


https://caselaw.findlaw.com/mn-court-of-appeals/1423980.html                                                                   2/9


1/29/2019                                                            CITY OF ELKO v. Albert LaFontaine, Defendant. | FindLaw
    additional evidence to sustain the ordinance. Appellants claim that the city did not meet its burden. The city
    counters that nude dancing establishments are only entitled to minimal protection under the First
    Amendment, and that the ordinance complies with the requirements the Supreme Court has established for
    regulating adult uses.

         It is well established that regulations enacted for the purpose of restraining speech on the basis of content
    presumptively violate the First Amendment.2 See Carey v. Brown, 447 U.S. 455, 462-63, and n. 7, 100 S.Ct.
    2286, 2291, and n. 7, 65 L.Ed.2d 263 (1980). By contrast, a city may regulate a First Amendment-protected
    use if the ordinance is: (1) a content-neutral time, place, and manner regulation; (2) designed to serve a
    substantial governmental interest; and (3) which does not unreasonably limit alternative avenues of
    communication. City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41, 47, 106 S.Ct. 925, 928, 89 L.Ed.2d 29
    (1986). Thus, the Renton test is less stringent than that for content-related restrictions, because content-
    neutral speech regulations are justified without reference to the content of the regulated speech.

    But determining whether an ordinance is “content-based” or “content-neutral” is not always an easy task
    because certain ordinances do not fit neatly into either category. That is certainly the case with the City of
    Elko ordinance we are confronted with here. To be sure, the ordinance is enforced through a licensing
    scheme that prohibits certain expressive conduct (nude dancing), unless the establishment has obtained the
    appropriate license and satisfied various disclosure and disqualification provisions. As such, it is not a typical
    content-neutral zoning ordinance where, for example, a city has limited adult entertainment to a certain
    geographical area. Nevertheless, the ordinance does not ban nude dancing establishments altogether, and as
    the district court concluded, the ordinance is aimed not at the content of the “message” being conveyed by
    nude dancing, but rather at the secondary effects of nude dancing establishments on the surrounding
    community.

         Appellants forcefully argue that nude dancing is entitled to the same First Amendment protection afforded
    to core First Amendment activities and speech, such as, the production of newspapers, books, or films. But
    the United States Supreme Court has articulated what we believe is a dispositive distinction between the
    degree of First Amendment protection afforded to expressive conduct, such as nude dancing, and the degree of
    First Amendment protection afforded to other forms of speech and expressive conduct. For example, the
    Supreme Court has held that adult films and books receive complete First Amendment protection. See
    Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425, 122 S.Ct. 1728, 152 L.Ed.2d 670 (acknowledging a city ordinance regulating
    adult bookstores implicates First Amendment rights); Jacobellis v. Ohio, 378 U.S. 184, 187, 84 S.Ct. 1676,
    1677, 12 L.Ed.2d 793 (1964) (“[m]otion pictures are within the ambit of constitutional guarantees of freedom of
    speech and of the press”). However, the Supreme Court has consistently stated that while nude dancing is
    entitled to some First Amendment protection, “it falls only within the outer ambit of the First Amendment's
    protection.” See City of Erie v. Pap's A.M., 529 U.S. 277, 289, 120 S.Ct. 1382, 1391, 146 L.Ed.2d 265 (2000);
    Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560, 566, 111 S.Ct. 2456, 2460, 115 L.Ed.2d 504 (1991) (holding nude
    dancing is expressive conduct within the outer perimeters of the First Amendment, though only marginally so).
         Furthermore, the Supreme Court has noted that society's interest in this type of expression is different than
    its interest in non-sexually explicit expression. See Young v. Am. Mini Theaters, Inc., 427 U.S. 50, 70, 96
    S.Ct. 2440, 2452, 49 L.Ed.2d 310 (1976) (holding that it is manifest that society's interest in protecting this
    type of expression-sexually explicit materials-is of a wholly different and lesser magnitude than the interest in
    untrammeled political debate). The First Amendment parameters are admittedly not precise, but it is clear
    that nude dancing receives some lesser degree of First Amendment protection than adult films and adult
    books, or traditional political speech. Having established that the First Amendment only minimally protects
    nude dancing, our analysis now turns to whether Ordinance No. 92 is a valid time, place, and manner
    regulation, designed to serve a substantial governmental interest.

         A city may regulate a First Amendment-protected adult entertainment establishment if the ordinance
    satisfies a three-prong test: the ordinance must be (1) a content-neutral time, place, and manner regulation;
    (2) designed to serve a substantial governmental interest; and (3) which does not unreasonably limit
    alternative avenues of communication.3 Renton, 475 U.S. at 47, 106 S.Ct. at 928. We conclude that
    Ordinance No. 92 satisfies the three-prong test.

    1.     Content Neutral

         The ordinance satisfies the first prong of Renton as it is content-neutral. The Court in Renton held that
    “content-neutral” regulations are those that “are justified without reference to the content of the regulated
    speech.” Renton, 475 U.S. at 48, 106 S.Ct. at 929 (emphasis in original) (quotations omitted). In Renton, the
    Court concluded that the stated purpose of the ordinance was to address the secondary effects of adult
    businesses and not to suppress unpopular views; therefore the Court held the ordinance was content-neutral.
    Id.

    Here, the purpose of Ordinance No. 92 is also to minimize the secondary adverse effects of sexually oriented
    businesses. The city council considered the relationship between sexually oriented businesses and the
    potential adverse effects on the community prior to adopting the ordinance. The city relied on studies that


https://caselaw.findlaw.com/mn-court-of-appeals/1423980.html                                                                   3/9


1/29/2019                                                           CITY OF ELKO v. Albert LaFontaine, Defendant. | FindLaw
    described other cities' experiences with adult businesses and their adverse secondary effects. In addition, the
    ordinance states on its face that it is to neither have the “purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
    restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials.” The
    ordinance also provides that “it is not the intent nor effect of this Ordinance to restrict or deny access by adults
    to sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and
    exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market.” We conclude that Ordinance No. 92
    satisfies the first prong of the Renton test, as its purpose is to minimize the secondary adverse effects of
    sexually oriented businesses. Therefore, the district court correctly held that Ordinance No. 92 is a content-
    neutral time, place, and manner regulation.

    2.    Substantial Governmental Interest

         The second prong of Renton requires that the ordinance be designed to serve a substantial governmental
    interest. The Supreme Court has recognized that cities have an interest in attempting to preserve the quality
    of urban life and that interest is one that must be accorded high respect. See Am. Mini Theaters, 427 U.S. at
    71, 96 S.Ct. at 2453. Thus, the Court has held that combating the harmful secondary effects associated with
    nude dancing is a substantial governmental interest. Renton, 475 U.S. at 50, 106 S.Ct. at 930; Erie, 529 U.S.
    at 296, 120 S.Ct. at 1395. Furthermore, in demonstrating that secondary effects pose a threat, the city need
    not “conduct new studies or produce evidence independent of that already generated by other cities ․ so long as
    whatever evidence the city relies upon is reasonably believed to be relevant to the problem that the city
    addresses.” Renton, 475 U.S. at 51-52, 106 S.Ct. at 931. But appellants argue that the Supreme Court's recent
    decision in Alameda Books heightened the Renton evidentiary standard. We disagree.

    The primary issue in Alameda Books was the appropriate standard for determining whether an ordinance
    serves a “substantial government interest” under Renton. Alameda Books, 535 U.S. at 433, 122 S.Ct. at 1733.
    In Alameda Books, the Supreme Court rejected the Ninth Circuit's conclusion that a city must prove that the
    city's theory-in that case whether the adult bookstore would result in damaging secondary effects to the
    community-is the only theory that can plausibly explain the data the city relies on. Id. at 438-39, 122 S.Ct. at
    1735. To the contrary, in Alameda Books, the Court stated:

    [i]n Renton, we specifically refused to set such a high bar for municipalities that want to address merely the
    secondary effects of protected speech. We held that a municipality may rely on any evidence that is
    reasonably believed to be relevant for demonstrating a connection between speech and a substantial,
    independent government interest.

    Id. at 438, 122 S.Ct. at 1736. Appellants, however, claim that the following language in Alameda Books
    heightened the Renton evidentiary standard:

    [t]his is not to say that a municipality can get away with shoddy data or reasoning. The municipality's
    evidence must fairly support the municipality's rationale for its ordinance. If plaintiffs fail to cast direct doubt
    on this rationale, either by demonstrating that the municipalitys evidence does not support its rationale or by
    furnishing evidence that disputes the municipalitys factual findings, the municipality meets the standard set
    forth in Renton. If plaintiffs succeed in casting doubt on a municipality's rationale in either manner, the
    burden shifts back to the municipality to supplement the record with evidence renewing support for a theory
    that justifies its ordinance.

    Alameda Books, 535 U.S. at 438-39, 122 S.Ct. at 1736.

         Appellants claim that under the “new” standard in Alameda Books, the city must prove that the ordinance
    actually diminishes the secondary effects that the ordinance was designed to prevent. Appellants further
    claim that under Alameda Books, the city bears the burden of production to come forward with evidence to
    reestablish the validity of its initial conclusion when the city's evidence is challenged either by evidence (1)
    showing the studies relied upon are invalid or unreliable, or (2) that reaches a conclusion contrary to the city's
    studies. Appellant's position is unavailing.

    First, several courts have held that Alameda Books did not establish a “new” evidentiary standard, contrary to
    appellants' contention. In finding an ordinance was valid because the challengers failed to “cast sufficient
    doubt,” the Eighth Circuit rejected the argument that Alameda Books changed the evidentiary standard. SOB,
    Inc. v. County of Benton, 317 F.3d 856, 864 (8th Cir.2003). The Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals noted

    Justice O'Connor, writing for the four-justice plurality in [City of Erie v.] Pap's[A.M.], afforded substantial
    deference to legislative judgments regarding secondary effects.

    ․

    Alameda Books was ․ deferential in reviewing a zoning ordinance which had a broader impact on protected
    First Amendment interests. Justice Kennedy's concurring opinion in Alameda Books was somewhat less
    deferential than the plurality to local legislative judgments as to the adverse secondary effects purportedly
    addressed by zoning regulations. But Justice Kennedy joined the plurality opinions in Barnes [v. Glen

https://caselaw.findlaw.com/mn-court-of-appeals/1423980.html                                                                  4/9


1/29/2019                                                            CITY OF ELKO v. Albert LaFontaine, Defendant. | FindLaw
    Theatre, Inc.] as well as [Erie ], and he did not even cite those cases in his Alameda Books concurrence, which
    means there is nothing to suggest that he has retreated from his votes in Barnes and [Erie ]. In these
    circumstances, we conclude that the Court's holding in [Erie ] is still controlling regarding the deference to be
    afforded local governments that decide to ban live nude dancing.

    SOB, 317 F.3d at 863-64. Other courts have also held that Alameda Books did not create a new evidentiary
    burden and did not substantially change the second prong of the Renton test. See Giovani Carandola, Ltd. v.
    Bason, 303 F.3d 507, 516 (4th Cir.2002) (noting that a “city or state need carry a minimal burden to
    demonstrate its interest in regulation of such activity”); Baby Dolls Topless Saloons, Inc. v. City of Dallas, 295
    F.3d 471, 481 (5th Cir.2002) (citing Alameda Books and noting that a city is not required to demonstrate with
    empirical data that its ordinance will successfully lower crime); Ben's Bar, Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d
    702, 721-22 (7th Cir.2003) (stating Justice Kennedy's concurrence in Alameda Books “agreed with the
    plurality's overall conclusion that a municipality's initial burden of demonstrating a substantial government
    interest in regulating the adverse secondary effects associated with adult entertainment is slight”). We
    likewise conclude that Alameda Books did not establish a “new” evidentiary standard.

    Were this court to adopt appellants' reading of Alameda Books, whenever a prospective licensee casts any
    doubt on the municipality's evidence, the burden would shift to the municipality to supplement the record with
    evidence renewing support for a theory that justifies the ordinance. Parties to these cases would be on a
    never-ending merry-go-round of burden shifting. Thus, after careful review of Alameda Books, we conclude
    that the party challenging an ordinance must cast “direct doubt” on the municipality's rationale by showing the
    “municipality's evidence does not support its rationale.” Alameda Books, 535 U.S. at 438-39, 122 S.Ct. at 1736
    (emphasis added). To cast direct doubt, the challenger must present evidence that is directly contrary to the
    municipality's evidence, not simply produce a general study refuting all secondary effects. This is not a new
    or heightened evidentiary standard as this interpretation is consistent with the holding in Renton, which
    established the proper evidentiary burden of the parties.

         Here, the city relied on relevant studies on the adverse secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses
    when it adopted Ordinance No. 92. The city used studies that described other cities' experiences as to adverse
    secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses, and reasonably believed that licensing regulations for
    sexually oriented businesses would serve to reduce potential secondary adverse effects. In addition,
    appellants did not produce evidence that cast direct doubt on the city's studies. Appellants merely claim that
    the studies relied on by the City amount to nothing more than “junk social science.” But as the district court
    properly noted, it appears these same or similar studies were relied on and upheld in other cases, including
    Jakes, Ltd., Inc. v. City of Coates, 284 F.3d 884 (8th Cir.2002), Renton, and Alameda Books. In sum,
    appellants produced one article criticizing the research methods used by municipalities in secondary-effects
    studies and the prior testimony of a manager of a nude dancing club in an unrelated matter. As the district
    court aptly noted, the article 4 submitted by appellants was submitted in SOB in that party's unsuccessful
    attempt to overturn an ordinance. 317 F.3d at 863. General commentary criticizing adverse secondary effect
    studies is not enough to cast “direct doubt” on the city's rationale for the ordinance.

    Because Alameda Books did not change the Renton evidentiary standard for determining whether an
    ordinance serves a “substantial government interest,” and because Ordinance No. 92 meets the three-prong
    Renton test, we hold that Ordinance No. 92 is constitutional and accordingly affirm the decision of the district
    court.

    II

    Disqualification Provisions

         Ordinance No. 92 authorizes the city to conduct background checks and to disqualify license applicants with
    certain criminal convictions and tax delinquencies. Appellants contend that such disqualification provisions
    are unlawful prior restraints in violation of the First Amendment. The city counters that disqualifications
    based on prior criminal convictions of certain crimes are valid, and notes that similar provisions have been
    upheld. The city further contends that the ordinance does not totally prohibit licensure based on prior
    convictions, but simply requires a waiting period before obtaining a license.

    Section 5 of the ordinance provides, in relevant part, that licenses shall not be issued to individuals who have
    been convicted of certain enumerated sex crimes and where less than two years have elapsed since the date of
    conviction or release from confinement, if the conviction is a misdemeanor; and less than five years have
    elapsed since the date of conviction or release if the conviction is a felony; or if the individual has been
    convicted of multiple misdemeanors occurring within a 24-month period. Several courts have upheld
    disqualifications based on past criminal convictions. See DLS, Inc. v. City of Chattanooga, 107 F.3d 403, 414-
    15 (6th Cir.1997) (finding that the disqualification for a conviction of certain sexual offenses within the last five
    years is valid since the city officials' discretion is limited by objective criteria); TK's Video, Inc. v. Denton
    County, 24 F.3d 705, 709-10 (5th Cir.1994) (finding that disqualification for convictions for certain sexual
    offenses, and disclosure of such convictions, are valid since they are correlated with the side effects that can
    attend these businesses and the “ends and means are substantially related”).

https://caselaw.findlaw.com/mn-court-of-appeals/1423980.html                                                                   5/9


1/29/2019                                                          CITY OF ELKO v. Albert LaFontaine, Defendant. | FindLaw
    Appellants argue, however, that the Minnesota Supreme Court invalidated such restrictions in Alexander v.
    City of St. Paul, 303 Minn. 201, 227 N.W.2d 370 (1975). In Alexander, the city council revoked a theater
    license after an employee was convicted of selling, distributing or exhibiting an obscene motion picture.
    Alexander, 303 Minn. at 203, 227 N.W.2d at 372. The Minnesota Supreme Court noted that expression by
    means of motion pictures is included within the First and Fourteenth Amendments. Id. The court also noted
    that “the standards for excluding persons from engaging in the licensed activity must bear a reasonable
    relationship to their qualifications to engage in that activity.” Id. In finding the ordinance unconstitutional,
    the court noted that because the city was licensing a motion picture theater, “it is licensing an activity protected
    by the First Amendment, and as a result the power of the city is more limited than when the city licenses
    activities which do not have First Amendment protection.” Id. at 227, 227 N.W.2d at 373-74. Of particular
    significance to our analysis here, the court also held that revoking a license for a past conviction related to
    obscenity denies the person the ability to exercise a constitutionally protected right because of a past abuse of
    that right. Id. at 206, 227 N.W.2d at 373.

    But Alexander is distinguishable on several grounds. First, Alexander involved the licensure of motion
    picture theaters-a category of expression not subject to the limiting language used by the Supreme Court in
    analyzing nude dancing ordinances.5 See Jacobellis, 378 U.S. at 187, 84 S.Ct. at 1677 (motion pictures are
    within the ambit of constitutional guarantees of freedom of speech and of the press). The case law is clear
    that nude dancing receives a lesser degree of First Amendment protection than adult films. Barnes, 501 U.S.
    at 566, 111 S.Ct. at 2457. Secondly, Ordinance No. 92 does not deny a license for a past abuse of a
    constitutionally protected right, such as showing motion pictures. Rather, the city's ordinance temporarily
    denies a person a license for a past conviction of certain enumerated sex-crimes, such as prostitution. In
    addition, the city's ordinance sufficiently limits the decision-maker's discretion because the ordinance contains
    objective criteria enumerating the disqualifying sex crimes and limiting the period of disqualification by the
    severity of the crime.

    Because similar disqualification provisions have been upheld and the disqualification provisions are
    substantially related to the city's significant governmental interest, we affirm.

    III

    Disclosure Provisions

    Appellants also argue that the disclosure requirements in Ordinance No. 92 constitute a prior restraint on
    freedom of expression.6 The city counters that other courts have held that disclosure requirements in similar
    ordinances are valid.

      Many other courts have upheld similar disclosure requirements. See TK's Video, 24 F.3d at 710 (upholding
    the disclosure requirement, including names, ages, and prior criminal histories); Ellwest Stereo Theater, Inc.
    v. Boner, 718 F.Supp. 1553, 1566-68 (M.D.Tenn.1989) (upholding disclosure requirement as to persons
    operating and managing the adult-oriented businesses, but finding the disclosure requirement as to their
    criminal convictions was overbroad); Broadway Books, Inc. v. Roberts, 642 F.Supp. 486, 493 (E.D.Tenn.1986)
    (upholding disclosure requirement, including criminal records). In order for the city to compel disclosure, “it
    is necessary that there be a substantial relationship between the information sought to be disclosed and a
    significant governmental interest to be furthered by such disclosure.” Ellwest Stereo Theater, 718 F.Supp. at
    1567. The Fifth Circuit noted that requiring owners and employees to disclose information about their age,
    prior regulatory infractions, and sexual offenses, “substantially relates to the substantial government interest
    of curtailing pernicious side effects of adult businesses.” TK's Video, 24 F.3d at 710.

    The city has a “significant governmental interest” that is furthered by the disclosures required in the ordinance.
     The purpose of the ordinance is to “guard against the inception and transmission of disease” and to guard
    against the secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses. And, as the Fifth Circuit noted, disclosing
    information about owners' and employees' ages, prior regulatory infractions and sexually related criminal
    convictions substantially relates to the city's interests in guarding against the secondary effects of sexually
    oriented businesses.

    Because similar disclosure requirements have been upheld, and because the disclosure requirements are
    substantially related to the city's significant governmental interest, we affirm.

    IV

    License Fee Provisions

      Appellants also argue that the license fee (of $5,000) and the investigation fee (of $1,500) are
    unconstitutional prior restraints on First Amendment rights. Appellants acknowledge that the city may
    impose a fee, but, citing Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U.S. 105, 63 S.Ct. 870, 87 L.Ed. 1292 (1943), contend
    that licensing fees on adult entertainment must be reasonably related to recouping the costs of administering
    the licensing program. Appellants also argue that following the Supreme Court's decision in Alameda Books,


https://caselaw.findlaw.com/mn-court-of-appeals/1423980.html                                                                 6/9


1/29/2019                                                          CITY OF ELKO v. Albert LaFontaine, Defendant. | FindLaw
    the municipality bears the burden of proving the reasonableness of the fees. The city counters that the license
    fee in the ordinance is valid and notes that the Eighth Circuit has held that the prospective licensee has the
    burden of proving the license fee is unreasonable. The city also argues that appellants have produced no
    evidence showing the fee is unreasonable or content-based.

        Distinguishing core First Amendment cases such as Murdock, which involved the right to distribute religious
    leaflets, the Eighth Circuit in Jake's held that because nude dancing is only marginally protected by the First
    Amendment, adult entertainment license fees need not be reasonably related to recouping the costs of
    administering the licensing program. Jake's, 284 F.3d at 891. In addition, the Jake's court noted that the
    “prospective licensee has the burden of establishing that a license fee is unreasonable”; however, a “fee may be
    so large or so discriminatory as to demonstrate that it is not content-neutral.” Id. And, as noted earlier in this
    opinion, Alameda Books. which was decided approximately six weeks after Jake's, did not change the
    evidentiary standard municipalities must meet to satisfy the “substantial governmental interest” test. By
    logical extension, nothing in Alameda Books shifts the burden to municipalities to establish the reasonableness
    of the license fee.

    Nevertheless, appellants point to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals, which has held that

    when core First Amendment freedoms are made subject to a licensing scheme, only revenue-neutral fees may
    be imposed so that government is not charging for the privilege of exercising a constitutional right ․ [and] it is
    the government's burden to demonstrate that its licensing fee is reasonably related to recoupment of the costs
    of administering the licensing program.

    Fly Fish, Inc. v. City of Cocoa Beach, 337 F.3d 1301, 1314 (11th Cir.2003) (citation omitted). The Eleventh
    Circuit also noted that at least one other circuit and several federal district courts have adopted the same
    analysis on licensing fees on adult entertainment businesses. Id. (citing Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc. v. Metro.
    Gov't of Nashville, 274 F.3d 377, 395 (6th Cir.2001); Kentucky Rest. Concepts, Inc. v. City of Louisville, 209
    F.Supp.2d 672, 691-692 (W.D.Ky.2002); AAK, Inc. v. City of Woonsocket, 830 F.Supp. 99, 105 (D.R.I.1993);
    Ellwest Stereo Theater, 718 F.Supp. at 1574; Bayside Enters., Inc. v. Carson, 450 F.Supp. 696, 704-705
    (M.D.Fla.1978)). Appellants urge us to adopt the Eleventh Circuit's analysis. We decline to do so.

    Instead, we adopt the Eighth Circuit's analysis regarding licensing fees for businesses that offer nude dancing
    because, as noted above, nude dancing receives a lesser degree of First Amendment protection. Thus,
    prospective licensees have the burden of proving that the fees are unreasonable. In adopting the Eighth
    Circuit's analysis, we acknowledge, as did the Jake's court, that an adult entertainment license fee may be “so
    large or so discriminatory as to demonstrate that it is not content neutral.” Jake's, 284 F.3d at 891. But here,
    appellants have not met their burden to show that the fees are unreasonable. The district court and the city
    noted that the appellants produced no evidence showing the fee is unreasonable, other than arguing that the
    fees are unreasonable because they are substantially higher than license fees in other cases. Although we
    acknowledge that the fees here are high, we cannot say that they are so large or discriminatory as to
    demonstrate that they are not content neutral.

    V

    Distance Restrictions and Prohibition Against Gratuities

        Finally, appellants challenge the provisions in Ordinance No. 92 prohibiting any dancer from receiving
    gratuities and requiring dancers to be no closer than six feet from any patron. Appellants argue that the
    distance requirements create so-called “floating buffer zones” and note that these buffer zones have been
    invalidated by the United States Supreme Court. Appellants also contend that the dancers should be allowed
    to accept gratuities since the Supreme Court (in other contexts) has invalidated such financial disincentives to
    engage in constitutionally protected speech. The city counters that the distance restrictions are nearly
    identical to restrictions that other courts have upheld, and contends that the First Amendment protects neither
    the desire to dance within a certain distance nor the opportunity to receive tips. Finally, the city argues that
    the ordinance has a fixed buffer zone, not a floating buffer zone as appellants argue.

    Section 18 of the ordinance requires that performers maintain a six-foot distance from customers while
    performing on a platform raised two feet from the floor where the customers sit. Section 18 also limits the
    manner in which dancers may solicit or accept gratuities. Several circuits have upheld similar behavioral
    (distance and gratuity) restrictions on dancers as reasonable, content-neutral time, place, and manner
    restrictions. See Jake's, 284 F.3d at 891-92 (six feet and no tips); Deja Vu of Nashville, 274 F.3d at 396-98
    (three feet and finding there is no constitutional requirement that compensation come in the form of tips);
    Colacurcio v. City of Kent, 163 F.3d 545, 553 (9th Cir.1998) (ten feet), cert. denied, 529 U.S. 1053, 120 S.Ct.
    1553, 146 L.Ed.2d 459 (2000); Kev, Inc. v. Kitsap County, 793 F.2d 1053, 1061-62 (9th Cir.1986) (ten feet and
    no tips).

    Appellants argue, however, that similar distance restrictions have been held unconstitutional. In support of
    their position, appellants point us to Schenck v. Pro-Choice Network of Western New York, 519 U.S. 357, 117


https://caselaw.findlaw.com/mn-court-of-appeals/1423980.html                                                                 7/9


1/29/2019                                                          CITY OF ELKO v. Albert LaFontaine, Defendant. | FindLaw
    S.Ct. 855, 137 L.Ed.2d 1 (1997), where the Supreme Court struck down a so-called “floating buffer zone” that
    required abortion protesters to remain 15 feet from the abortion clinic doorway and driveway entrances. The
    Supreme Court invalidated floating buffer zones in the abortion protest context because proximity was
    essential to the type of expression the protesters sought to protect. Id. at 377-78, 117 S.Ct. at 867. The
    protesters in Schenck attempted to persuade patients to reconsider their decision as they approached the
    entrance to the clinic. Id. It was difficult, if not impossible, to speak in a conversational manner with patients
    and simultaneously comply with the distance requirements. Id. The court concluded that the injunction
    lacked precision and burdened more speech than necessary. Id. at 380, 117 S.Ct. at 868. Appellants argue
    that, in a similar fashion, the entertainers will dance further away from patrons in order to assure they do not
    inadvertently violate the distance restrictions. The flaw in appellants' argument is that Ordinance No. 92 is
    not a “floating buffer zone” as described in Schenck. Unlike the distance restriction in Schenck, the distance
    restriction in Ordinance No. 92 is well defined, and is confined to the “platform” where the performers may
    provide the entertainment. Furthermore, close proximity is not an essential element of nude dancing because
    the expressive content of such dancing does not depend on being at “a normal conversational distance,” as
    appellants imply. As the district court aptly noted, “[w]hatever constitutionally protected aspects there are in
    nude dancing would seem to be preserved from a distance of six feet as well as six inches.”

    Because the distance restriction is well defined and sufficiently narrow, we affirm.

    DECISION

    The district court correctly concluded that Ordinance No. 92 is constitutional because nude dancing receives a
    lesser degree of First Amendment protection than adult films or books, and because the ordinance meets the
    three-prong Renton test. Accordingly, we affirm the district court's grant of summary judgment to the City of
    Elko. In addition, we affirm the district court's grant of summary judgment to the City of Elko with respect to
    the disqualification and disclosure provisions because they are substantially related to the city's significant
    governmental interest. We also affirm the district court's grant of summary judgment to the City of Elko with
    respect to the license and investigation fees because appellants did not meet their burden to show the fees are
    unreasonable, and because the fees are not so large as to demonstrate that they are not content neutral.
    Finally, we affirm the district court's grant of summary judgment with respect to the distance restrictions and
    prohibition against gratuities because the distance restrictions are well defined and narrowly drawn and do not
    burden more “speech” than is necessary.

    Affirmed.

    I agree with the majority regarding the disposition of this appeal but concur specially because I do not believe
    that the activity at issue here is protected by the First Amendment.

    In U.S. v. O'Brien, four men burned their Selective Service registration certificates in violation of the Universal
    Military Training and Service Act to encourage “others to adopt [their] antiwar beliefs.” 391 U.S. 367, 369-70,
    88 S.Ct. 1673, 1675, 20 L.Ed.2d 672 (1968). The men were prosecuted for this violation; their defense was
    that it was protected “symbolic speech” because they intended to convey an idea. Id. at 376, 88 S.Ct. at 1678.
    In rejecting this argument, the Court stated, “We cannot accept the view that an apparently limitless variety of
    conduct can be labeled ‘speech’ whenever the person engaging in the conduct intends thereby to express an
    idea.” Id. When analyzing restrictions on so-called symbolic speech, the Court enumerated a four-part test, all
    parts of which must be satisfied for the legislation to be constitutional: (1) the government making the law
    must have the constitutional authority to do so, (2) the law must serve “an important or substantial
    governmental interest,” (3) the interest must not be related to the suppression of free expression, and (4) the
    incidental restriction on expression must be no more than is necessary to achieve the governmental interest.
    Id. at 377, 88 S.Ct. at 1679.

    Four years later, in California v. LaRue, the Supreme Court stated that nude dancing is entitled to some
    constitutional protection, but observed that this form of “live entertainment” “partake[s] more of gross
    sexuality than of communication.” 409 U.S. 109, 118, 93 S.Ct. 390, 397, 34 L.Ed.2d 342 (1972). In Schad v.
    Borough of Mount Ephraim, the Court stated, “Entertainment, as well as political and ideological speech, is
    protected”; the Court continued that “an entertainment program” may not “be prohibited solely because it
    displays the nude human figure.” 452 U.S. 61, 65-66, 101 S.Ct. 2176, 2181, 68 L.Ed.2d 671 (1981).

    The meaning of LaRue and Schad was clarified in Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc. where the Supreme Court noted,
    “[N]ude dancing ․ is expressive conduct within the outer perimeters of the First Amendment.” 501 U.S. 560,
    565-66, 111 S.Ct. 2456, 2460, 115 L.Ed.2d 504 (1991). Unfortunately, the Supreme Court has recently
    reiterated this position, noting that nude dancing is “expressive conduct” falling “within the outer ambit of the
    First Amendment's protection.” City of Erie v. Pap's A.M., 529 U.S. 277, 289, 120 S.Ct. 1382, 1391, 146 L.Ed.2d
    265 (2000).

    But the better position, and the position that does not necessitate the intellectual gymnastics created by an
    attempt to find what the “outer ambit” of the First Amendment means, is the position articulated by Justice
    Scalia in his Barnes concurrence where he correctly argued that statutes and ordinances prohibiting or

https://caselaw.findlaw.com/mn-court-of-appeals/1423980.html                                                                 8/9


1/29/2019                                                             CITY OF ELKO v. Albert LaFontaine, Defendant. | FindLaw
    restricting erotic dancing are “not subject to First Amendment scrutiny at all.” Barnes at 572, 111 S.Ct. at 2463
    (Scalia, J., concurring). Justice Scalia noted that there is a long history in American law of prohibiting public
    nudity, and it is a recent development that such laws have been thought to have First Amendment
    implications. Id. at 572-73, 111 S.Ct. at 2464.

    It is difficult, and ultimately a useless task, to attempt to define the “outer ambit” of the First Amendment that
    protects erotic dancing. The better approach is to recognize that erotic dancing is solely conduct and not
    entitled to First Amendment protection.

    FOOTNOTES

    1.   The draft resolution, Resolution No. 23, identified potential adverse secondary effects including:
    increased crime rates (especially sex-related crimes), depression of commercial and residential property
    values, and increased transiency.

    2.   U.S. Const. Amend. I provides: “Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion,
    or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press, or the right of the
    people peaceably to assemble, or to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.” The protections of
    the First Amendment are made applicable to the states by the Fourteenth Amendment. Stromberg v.
    California, 283 U.S. 359, 368, 51 S.Ct. 532, 535, 75 L.Ed. 1117 (1931).

    3.   The third prong of the Renton test is not at issue in this appeal.

    4.   Bryant Paul, et al., Government Regulation of “Adult” Businesses Through Zoning and Anti-Nudity
    Ordinances: Debunking the Legal Myth of Negative Secondary Effects, 6 Comm. L. & Pol. 355 (2001).

    5.   Similarly, many of the other cases cited by appellants also involved adult motion picture establishments
    or adult bookstores-businesses also not subjected to the nude dancing constitutional standard.

    6.   A prospective operator of a sexually oriented business is required to execute an application form which
    requires applicants to disclose: their name, and any name used in the prior five years, current business
    address, fingerprints or social security number, name and address of the proposed business, proof of age, and
    information on any other licenses to operate sexually oriented businesses and the status of such licenses.

    HUDSON, Judge.




         RESEARCH THE LAW                   Cases & Codes / Opinion Summaries / Sample Business Contracts / Research An Attorney or Law Firm
         MANAGE YOUR PRACTICE               Law Technology / Law Practice Management / Law Firm Marketing Services / Corporate Counsel Center
         MANAGE YOUR CAREER                 Legal Career Job Search / Online CLE / Law Student Resources
         NEWS AND COMMENTARY                Law Commentary / Featured Documents / Newsletters / Blogs / RSS Feeds
         GET LEGAL FORMS                    Legal Forms for Your Practice
         ABOUT US                           Company History / Media Relations / Contact Us / Privacy / Cookies / Advertising / Jobs
         FIND US ON



         Copyright © 2019, Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved.




https://caselaw.findlaw.com/mn-court-of-appeals/1423980.html                                                                                    9/9


                                ZONING ORDINANCE DEFINITIONS
                         ASSOCIATED WITH SEXUALLY ORIENTED USES

SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: A sexually oriented arcade; sexually oriented bookstore; sexually
oriented video store; sexually oriented cabaret; sexually oriented conversation/rap parlor; sexually oriented
massage parlor; sexually oriented motel; sexually oriented motion picture theater; sexually oriented sauna;
sexually oriented theater; escort agency; nude model studio; sexual encounter center; and other premises,
enterprises, establishments, businesses, or places open to some or all members of the public, at or in which
there is an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction, or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas which are capable of being seen by members of the public.

       Specified Anatomical Area: Includes either of the following:

            A. The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely
               covered; or

            B. Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or a
               female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola.

       Specified Sexual Activities: Includes any of the following:

            A. The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus, or
               female breasts;

            B. Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
               copulation, or sodomy;

            C. Masturbation, actual or simulated; or

            D. Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in
               subsections A, B and C of this definition.

SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS, ACCESSORY: The offering of retail goods for sale which are
classified as sexually oriented uses on a limited scale and which are incidental to the primary activity and goods
and/or services offered by the establishment. Examples of such items include the sale of sexually oriented
books or magazines, or the sale of and/or rental of sexually oriented motion pictures.

SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS, PRINCIPAL: The offering of goods and/or services which are
classified as sexually oriented uses as a primary or sole activity of a business or establishment and include, but
are not limited to, the following:

       Escort: A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a companion, guide, or date for
       another person, or who agrees or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease
       for another person.

       Escort Agency: A person or business association who furnishes, offers to furnish, or advertises to
       furnish escorts as one of its primary business purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.

       Establishment: Means and includes any of the following:

            A. The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new business;


    B. The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually oriented business, to any
       sexually oriented business;

    C. The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other existing sexually oriented
       business; or

    D. The relocation of any sexually oriented business.

Nude Model Studio: Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity or displays specified
anatomical area is provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or
similarly depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.

Nudity or State of Nudity:

    A. The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female genitals, or female
       breasts; or

    B. The state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human buttock, anus, male genitals,
       female genitals, or areola of the female breast.

Seminude: A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the genitals, pubic region, and
areola of the female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.

Sexual Encounter Center: A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of its primary business
purposes, offers for any form of consideration:

    A. Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons of the opposite sex;
       or

    B. Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same sex when one or
       more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi nudity.

Sexually Oriented Arcade: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin operated
or slug operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.

Sexually Oriented Bookstore Or Sexually Oriented Video Store: A commercial establishment which,
as a principal business purpose, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more
of the following: books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes or video reproductions, compact disks, computer software, digital recordings,
slides, or other visual representations which depict or describe specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in connection with
specified sexual activities.

Sexually Oriented Cabaret: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial establishment which
regularly features:

    A. Persons who appear seminude or in a state of nudity; or


    B. Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas
       or by specified sexual activities; orFilms, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, compact
       disks, computer software, digital recordings or other photographic reproductions which are
       characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
       anatomical areas.

Sexually Oriented Conversation/Rap Parlor: A conversation/rap parlor which excludes minors by
reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion between an employee of the establishment and a customer, if such service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.

Sexually Oriented Massage Parlor: A massage parlor which excludes minors by reason of age, or which
provides, for any form of consideration, the rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping, or rolling of the
body, if the service provided by the massage parlor is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.

Sexually Oriented Motel: A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment which:

    A. Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration; provides patrons with
       closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other
       photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
       specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the public
       right of way which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic reproductions;
       or

    B. Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours or an
       hourly basis; or

    C. Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room for a period of time that
       is less than ten (10) hours or an hourly basis.

Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Theater: A commercial establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions are
regularly shown which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.

Sexually Oriented Sauna: A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides, for any
form of consideration, a steam bath or heated bathing room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxing,
or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing, or reducing agent, if the service provided
by the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.

Sexually Oriented Theater: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial establishment
which regularly features persons who appear seminude or in a state of nudity or live performances
which are characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.


11-5-16: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES 1 :
 A. Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish provisions for the opportunity as well as control of sexually oriented
businesses within the City.

 B. General Requirements: Sexually oriented businesses, as defined in section 11-2-2 of this title, shall be subject to the following
general provisions:

     1. Activities classified as obscene, as defined by Minnesota Statutes section 617.241, are prohibited.

   2. Sexually oriented businesses, either principal or accessory, shall be prohibited from locating in any building which is also
used for residential purposes. (Ord. 5, 12-14-2006)

    3. Sexually oriented businesses, either principal or accessory, shall be prohibited from locating in any building which is also
licensed to sell intoxicating liquor, 3.2 percent malt liquor or wine. (Ord. 5, 12-14-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
    4. A sexually oriented business which does not qualify as an accessory sexually oriented business shall be classified as a
principal sexually oriented business.

    C. Principal Sexually Oriented Businesses:

    1. Principal sexually oriented businesses shall be located at least two hundred (200) radial feet, as measured in a straight line
from the closest point of the property line of the building upon which the principal sexually oriented business is located, to the
property line of:

        a. Another principal sexually oriented business.

        b. Schools.

        c. Churches.
        d. Daycare facilities. (Ord. 5, 12-14-2006)

        e. Public parks. (Ord. 188, 4-11-2019)

        f. Residential Zoning Districts.

    2. Principal sexually oriented business activities, as defined by this title, shall be classified as one use. No two (2) principal
sexually oriented businesses shall be located in the same building or upon the same property, and each business shall be subject to
the above provisions.

    3. All building walls and openings, such as entryways and windows, shall be covered or screened in such a manner as to
prevent a view into the interior from any public or semipublic area. In the case of new construction, and whenever it is considered
feasible by the zoning administrator, the building shall be oriented so as to minimize any possibility of viewing the interior from public
or semipublic areas.

   4. Advertisements, displays or other promotional materials shall not be shown or exhibited so as to be visible to the public from
pedestrian sidewalks or walkways or from other public or semipublic areas.

    D. Accessory Sexually Oriented Business: Accessory sexually oriented businesses shall:
   1. Comprise no more than five percent (5%) of the floor area of the establishment in which it is located; provided, that the
maximum floor area used for accessory sexually oriented businesses may not exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet.

     2. Comprise no more than ten percent (10%) of the gross receipts of the entire business operation.
     3. Not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of merchandise.

   4. Be restricted from and prohibit access to minors by the physical separation of such items from areas of the general public
access as follows:
     a. Movie Rentals: Display areas shall be restricted from general view and shall be located within a separate room, the access
of which is in clear view and under the control of the persons responsible for the operation or shall be in catalogs under the direct
control and distribution of the operator.
     b. Magazines: Publications classified or qualifying as sexually oriented shall not be physically accessible to minors and shall
be covered with a wrapper or other means to prevent display of any material other than the publication title.

    5. Be prohibited at any public show, movie, caravan, circus, carnival, theatrical or other performance or exhibition presented to
the general public where minors are admitted.
 E. State Statute Superseded: This section hereby supersedes Minnesota statutes section 617.242 in its entirety. (Ord. 5, 12-14-
2006)



Notes

1          1. See also title 4, chapter 7 of this Code.


                                                   601 Main Street
                                            Elko New Market, MN 55054
                                       phone: 952-461-2777 fax: 952-461-2782


                                               MEMORANDUM

      TO:                PLANNING COMMISSION
      FROM:              RENEE CHRISTIANSION, SENIOR PLANNER
      RE:                DATA CENTER MORATORIUM
      DATE:              MAY 26, 2026
                         PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING: MAY 26, 2026
                         CITY COUNCIL MEETING:        N/A
                         60-DAY REVIW DEADLINE:       N/A

       Background
       The purpose of this memo is to inform the Planning Commission that on May 14, 2026, the Elko New Market
       City Council adopted an interim ordinance (moratorium) prohibiting the location, establishment, and operation
       of data centers in Elko New Market. Attached is the background memorandum that was provided to the City
       Council in advance of their decision.

       City staff and consultants will study the matter and make recommendations to the Planning Commission and
       City Council regarding any reasonable restrictions that may be needed related to the establishment and
       operation of data centers.

      Requested Action
      No action is being requested from the Planning Commission at this time. This information is being provided
      for informational purposes only.

      Attachments
           May 14, 2026 City Council memorandum regarding moratorium on data centers.




Data Center Moratorium
Page 1 of 11
May 26, 2026


                                STAFF MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT:                   Moratorium on Data Centers
MEETING DATE:              May 14, 2026
PREPARED BY:               Renee Christianson, Senior Planner
REQUESTED ACTION:          1) Adopt Ordinance 345 Prohibiting the Location, Establishment,
                           and Operation of Data Centers in the City of Elko New Market
                           2) Adopt Summary Ordinance 346 Regarding Prohibiting the
                           Location, Establishment, and Operation Data Centers in the City
                           of Elko New Market

COMMUNITY VISION:
    Envisioned to be a mature growing freestanding suburb of the Twin Cities Metropolitan
    Area, the City will foster a friendly and social environment that supports a safe, vibrant,
    and welcoming community. The community will be inclusive of people of all
    backgrounds and built on genuine relationships.
    The community will preserve its historic landmarks and small-town character while
    providing suburban amenities and services. A full range of employment, housing,
    business, service, social, technology infrastructure and recreational opportunities will
    be available for community members and visitors.
    The City will promote a diverse commercial and industrial tax base. The City will
    facilitate planned redevelopment. Development and redevelopment within the
    community will be aesthetically pleasing with architectural standards that promote
    quality development.
    The City will have a comprehensive park and trails system. The park system will have
    sufficient facilities, play fields and open space to meet the needs of the community’s
    residents.
    The City will have an effective and efficient transportation system, including access to
    the greater metropolitan area, transit opportunities, and improved connectivity to the
    interstate.
    The City will provide community oriented local government that promotes community
    involvement, organizational improvements, problem solving, performance
    measurement and professionalism. The City will provide a full range of high-quality
    municipal services to its residents; allocate sufficient resources to meet the growing
    needs of the community; and be financially sound, engaging in long-term financial
    planning to provide municipal services without undue burden on the taxpayers of the
    City.
PRIORITY GOALS:
    Advance the “shovel ready” status of areas guided for commercial and industrial
    development through planning and where feasible, the procurement of supporting
    infrastructure.
    Develop a more diverse tax base, create more local employment opportunities and
    promote additional businesses and services within the community.
    Enhance the quality of life in the community through the improvement and expansion
    of the parks and trails system, recreational programming and cultural events.
    Promote high quality residential development that includes a broad spectrum of
    housing choices in both type and cost. Facilitate the development of residential lots
    and an increase in residential building permit activity.
                                            Page 1


 COMMUNITY ORIENTED LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
    Community Involvement - The City of Elko New Market will incorporate community
    feedback in making participative, transparent decisions by: Providing more
    opportunities for the public to have input on decisions that affect them; Engaging the
    public in strategic planning initiatives, both short and long term; Enabling the public to
    provide input on the effectiveness of public services and policies; and Working to
    develop leadership within the community.
    Organizational Improvement - The City of Elko New Market will strive to elevate the
    level of customer service and service delivery through cost effective use of personnel,
    structure, and information systems by: Developing an organizational climate that
    promotes innovation, creativity, collaboration and a customer-centered focus in
    providing community services, programs and projects; and Improve public services by
    reducing barriers between City departments in order to provide greater accessibility,
    flexibility, and efficiency in the delivery of public services.
    Problem Solving - The City of Elko New Market will engage in the process of proactive
    and systematic examination of identified issues in order to evaluate effective policy
    decisions by: Using available technology to improve the quality and accuracy of data
    used in decisions; Provide the resources to develop and implement the most cost-
    effective solutions; Considering the long-term costs and benefits in policy decisions;
    and Engaging in long-term financial planning to provide public services without undue
    burden on the taxpayers of the city.
    Performance Measurement - The City of Elko New Market will develop and utilize
    methods for measuring performance to evaluate progress and establish accountability
    for improving public services.
    Professionalism - The City of Elko New Market will provide local government that is
    characterized by high technical and ethical standards. The City will conduct business
    and present itself in a manner that promotes public confidence. The City will endeavor
    to recruit, train, and develop cohesive, high quality professional staff that will excel in
    providing public services.

BACKGROUND:
A Data Center is generally defined as a facility used primarily to store, manage, process, and
transmit digital data. Data Centers house network equipment, servers, cooling systems,
generators, etc. The City’s Zoning Ordinance does not currently identify data centers as a
distinct use and therefore does not have any standards specifically related to data centers. In
absence of a specific definition or zoning standards for data centers, from a land use perspective,
they could potentially be defined a Warehouse and Distribution use, which is a permitted use
within the City’s I-1, I-2 and B-6 zoning districts. These zoning districts would correspond with
the areas guided for Industrial and Business/Limited Industrial on the City’s 2040 Land Use Plan
Map (attached). Within the current city limit boundary, the remaining land in the Park I-35
Industrial Park is zoned I-1 (map attached). There is no land currently in the city limits that is
zoned B-6 or I-2.

There has been increased interest in locating data centers in Minnesota due to the state’s
naturally cool climate, and the availability of land, groundwater and electric resources. The
increased need for data centers is attributed to growth in cloud computing, the rapid shift to
cloud-based technologies, increased internet usage, increased streaming services, and AI.
Several cities in Minnesota are currently processing land use applications related to data
centers. The City of Eagan currently has four data centers under review or construction.



                                              Page 2


Data Centers have positive and negative impacts on communities. Economic impacts of data
centers can include significant tax revenue, local job creation, and spurring other development.
Environmental impacts of data centers can include significant water use, significant energy use,
and continuous or intermittent noise. There are few studies currently available on the
comprehensive environmental impacts on data centers.

Minnesota Statutes 462.355, subd.4 allows cities to adopt an interim ordinance, more commonly
known as a moratorium, to allow time to examine the impacts of certain land use issues.
Implementing a moratorium related to data centers would allow the City to pause any activity on
data centers and allow staff time to study potential impacts of data centers and adopt appropriate
zoning regulations to address potential impacts. A moratorium may restrict or prohibit
development for a period of up to one year.

To ensure a more comprehensive understanding of the development of data centers within the
City, while also ensuring that data centers do not interfere with other land uses, or have
substantial negative impacts on the environment, public health, safety, and welfare, staff are
recommending adoption of the attached interim ordinance / moratorium and summary
publication ordinance.

If the City Council chooses to adopt a moratorium on data centers, City Staff along with
consultants will study the matter and make recommendations to the City Council regarding any
reasonable restrictions on the operation of data centers.

BUDGET IMPACT:
The City will incur costs for external planning consultants to assist in research related to data
centers and develop potential ordinances, along with the cost of legal counsel. However, the
total budget impact of this item is currently unknown.

RECOMMENDED ACTION:
The City Council is being asked to consider the above information, and if the City Council
supports implementing a moratorium on data center development, the following actions are
recommended:

   1) Adopt Ordinance 345 Prohibiting the Location, Establishment, and Operation of Data
      Centers in the City of Elko New Market
   2) Adopt Summary Ordinance 346 Regarding Prohibiting Data Centers

ATTACHMENTS:
  1) Ordinance 345 Prohibiting the Location, Establishment, and Operation of Data Centers
     in the City of Elko New Market
  2) Summary Ordinance 346 Regarding Prohibiting the Location, Establishment, and
     Operation Data Centers in the City of Elko New Market
  3) Minnesota Statute 462.355
  4) 2040 Land Use Plan Map
  5) Zoning Map




                                             Page 3


                                     ORDINANCE NO. 345

                               CITY OF ELKO NEW MARKET
                               SCOTT COUNTY, MINNESOTA

                         AN INTERIM ORDINANCE
        PROHIBITING THE LOCATION, ESTABLISHMENT, AND OPERATION
            OF DATA CENTERS IN THE CITY OF ELKO NEW MARKET

The City Council of the City of Elko New Market does ordain:

SECTION 1. AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.

   1. Communities in Minnesota have been managing development applications for the siting and
      construction of data centers.

   2. These uses have the potential to have impacts upon neighboring properties, including but not
      limited to electricity and water consumption, and light and noise impacts.

   3. As provided by Minnesota Statutes § 462.357, zoning regulations are enacted to promote the
      public health, safety, morals, and general welfare, and there is an emergent and immediate need
      to study data center uses, to ensure that zoning standards appropriately provide for public safety,
      health, and welfare in the City.

   4. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes § 462.355, subd. 4, the City has the power to enact an interim
      ordinance “for the purpose of protecting the planning process and the health, safety and welfare
      of its citizens.” Specifically, the City has the power to enact a moratorium by interim ordinance
      in order to examine the impacts of these uses and the efficacy of current City zoning regulations,
      and to undertake a study of the issue for future regulation.

SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS. For purposes of this Interim Ordinance and the scope of application,
the term data center shall mean the following:

       A facility or a complex of buildings and facilities used primarily for the storage,
       management, processing, and transmission of digital data, including but not limited to
       cryptocurrency mining, AI generation, and support of the internet, which houses
       computer and/or network equipment systems, servers, appliances and other associated
       components related to digital data operations. The facility may also include air
       handlers, power generators, water cooling systems and water storage facilities, utility
       substations, and other associated utility infrastructure to support sustained operations
       at a data center. A data center complex/campus may include data management or
       storage buildings and ancillary support buildings and structures, including secure and
       controlled entrances, perimeter fencing, sally-ports, and cargo screening buildings.




                                                   1
 239095v1


SECTION 3. FINDINGS. The City Council finds that:

   1. There is a need to study data center uses in the City, and to determine whether data center uses
      are consistent with the intent of the zoning ordinance, and whether they are consistent with
      the City’s comprehensive plan.

   2. It is in the City’s best interest to restrict the expansion and establishment of data centers, or
      the development of property for a data center while the study is on-going. Specifically, the
      City wishes to ensure that data centers do not interfere with other land uses, or have substantial
      negative impacts on the environment, public health, safety, and welfare.

   3. There is a need to adopt a City-wide moratorium for the purpose of protecting the planning
      process related to the location, establishment, and operation of data centers in the City, and
      for the purpose of examining the impacts of these uses.

SECTION 4. MORATORIUM. Commencing on the effective date of this Interim Ordinance and
for the term set forth in Section 7 of this Interim Ordinance, all property located within the City of
Elko New Market shall be subject to the following regarding the establishment or operation of a data
center:

       1. Planning or zoning applications related to a data center shall not be accepted or considered
          while the moratorium is in effect.

       2. No proposal for rezoning related to a data center (which includes planned development
          amendments and planned development concepts) or comprehensive plan amendment shall
          be recommended for approval by the Elko New Market Planning Commission or be or
          approved by the City Council.

       3. No conditional use permit or variance related to a data center shall be recommended for
          approval by the Elko New Market Planning Commission or be or approved by the City
          Council.

       4. No property within the City related to a data center shall be replatted or subdivided.

SECTION 5. STUDY. The City Council directs City Staff to study the efficacy of current zoning
regulation regarding data center uses within the City of Elko New Market. Staff must also study the
need for creating or amending zoning ordinance provisions to protect the residents of Elko New
Market from any potential negative impacts of such uses. Upon completion of the study, the City
Council, together with the Planning Commission as the City Council deems appropriate or, as may
be required by law, will consider the advisability of amending its current ordinances.

SECTION 6. ENFORCEMENT. The City may enforce this Interim Ordinance by mandamus,
injunctive relief, or other appropriate civil remedy in any court of competent jurisdiction. The City
Council hereby authorizes the City Administrator, in consultation with the City Attorney, to initiate
any legal action deemed necessary to secure compliance with this Interim Ordinance.



                                                  2
 239095v1


SECTION 7. TERM. The moratorium established under this Interim Ordinance shall remain in
effect until the date of the adoption of the official controls contemplated hereunder or May 13, 2027,
whichever occurs first (the “Expiration Date”). The City Council may extend this Interim Ordinance
as set forth in Minnesota Statutes § 462.355, subd. 4. If it is not extended or rescinded earlier by the
City Council, this Interim Ordinance will automatically expire on the Expiration Date.

SECTION 8. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Interim Ordinance shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its passage.

     PASSED AND ADOPTED this 14th day of May 2026, by the City Council of the City of Elko
New Market.

                                                       CITY OF ELKO NEW MARKET


                                                       BY: ____________________________
                                                             Andrew Ganfield, Mayor

ATTEST:


_______________________________
Thomas Terry, City Administrator/Clerk




                                                   3
 239095v1


                             SUMMARY ORDINANCE NO. 346

                               CITY OF ELKO NEW MARKET
                               SCOTT COUNTY, MINNESOTA

                      SUMMARY OF INTERIM ORDINANCE NO. 345

                         AN INTERIM ORDINANCE
        PROHIBITING THE LOCATION, ESTABLISHMENT, AND OPERATION
            OF DATA CENTERS IN THE CITY OF ELKO NEW MARKET


       NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that, on May 14, 2026, an Interim Ordinance was adopted
by the City Council of the City of Elko New Market, Minnesota.

       NOTICE IS FURTHER GIVEN that, because of the lengthy nature of the Interim
Ordinance, the following summary of the ordinance has been prepared for publication and approved
by the City Council as authorized by state law.

       This Interim Ordinance places a moratorium on the location, establishment, or operation of
       data centers in the City of Elko New Market until May 13, 2027. During the moratorium, the
       City will conduct a study to determine whether city must amend its zoning ordinance to
       address the impacts upon public health, safety and welfare created by data centers.

       A printed copy of the entire Interim Ordinance is available for inspection by any person during
       regular office hours at the office of the City Administrator at the Elko New Market City Hall,
       601 Main Street, Elko New Market, Minnesota 55054.

       APPROVED for publication on this 14th day of May 2026, by the City Council for the City
of Elko New Market.

                                             CITY OF ELKO NEW MARKET


                                             BY: _______________________________
                                                   Andrew Ganfield, Mayor

ATTEST:


____________________________
Thomas Terry, City Administrator/City Clerk




                                                  1
 239095v1


1 MINNESOTA STATUTES 2025 462.355

462.355 ADOPT, AMEND COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; INTERIM ORDINANCE.

Subdivision 1. Preparation and review. The planning agency shall prepare the comprehensive municipal
plan. In discharging this duty the planning agency shall consult with and coordinate the planning activities
of other departments and agencies of the municipality to insure conformity with and to assist in the
development of the comprehensive municipal plan. In its planning activities the planning agency shall take
due cognizance of the planning activities of adjacent units of government and other affected public agencies.
The planning agency shall periodically review the plan and recommend amendments whenever necessary.
When preparing or recommending amendments to the comprehensive plan, the planning agency of a
municipality located within a county that is not a greater than 80 percent area, as defined in section 103G.005,
subdivision 10b, must consider adopting goals and objectives that will protect open space and the environment.
When preparing or recommending amendments to the comprehensive plan, the planning agency must consider
(1) the location and dimensions of airport safety zones in any portion of the municipality, and (2) any airport
improvements identified in the airport's most recent approved airport layout plan.

Subd. la. Update by metropolitan municipalities. Each municipality in the metropolitan area, as
defined in section 473.121, subdivision 2, shall review and update its comprehensive plan and fiscal devices
and official controls as provided in section 473.864, subdivision 2.

Subd. 2. Procedure to adopt, amend. The planning agency may, unless otherwise provided by charter
or ordinance consistent with the municipal charter, recommend to the governing body the adoption and
amendment from time to time of a comprehensive municipal plan. The plan may be prepared and adopted
in sections, each of which relates to a major subject of the plan or to a major geographical section of the
municipality. The governing body may propose the comprehensive municipal plan and amendments to it
by resolution submitted to the planning agency. Before adopting the comprehensive municipal plan or any
section or amendment of the plan, the planning agency shall hold at least one public hearing thereon. A
notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be published once in the official newspaper of the
municipality at least ten days before the day of the hearing.

Subd. 3. Adoption by governing body. A proposed comprehensive plan or an amendment to it may
not be acted upon by the governing body until it has received the recommendation of the planning agency
or until 60 days have elapsed from the date an amendment proposed by the governing body has been submitted
to the planning agency for its recommendation. Unless otherwise provided by charter, the governing body
may by resolution adopt and amend the comprehensive plan or portion thereof as the official municipal plan
upon such notice and hearing as may be prescribed by ordinance. Except for amendments to permit affordable
housing development, a resolution to amend or adopt a comprehensive plan must be approved by a two-thirds
vote of all of the members. Amendments to permit an affordable housing development are approved by a
simple majority of all of the members. For purposes of this subdivision, "affordable housing development"
means a development in which at least 20 percent of the residential units are restricted to occupancy for at
least ten years by residents whose household income at the time of initial occupancy does not exceed 60
percent of area median income, adjusted for household size, as determined by the United States Department
of Housing and Urban Development, and with respect to rental units, the rents for affordable units do not
exceed 30 percent of 60 percent of area median income, adjusted for household size, as determined annually
by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.

Subd. 4. Interim ordinance. (a) If a municipality is conducting studies or has authorized a study to be
conducted or has held or has scheduled a hearing for the purpose of considering adoption or amendment of
a comprehensive plan or official controls as defined in section 462.352, subdivision 15, or if new territory
for which plans or controls have not been adopted is annexed to a municipality, the governing body of the
municipality may adopt an interim ordinance applicable to all or part of its jurisdiction for the purpose of

Official Publication of the State of Minnesota
Revisor of Statutes


462.355 MINNESOTA STATUTES 2025 2

protecting the planning process and the health, safety and welfare of its citizens. The interim ordinance may
regulate, restrict, or prohibit any use, development, or subdivision within the jurisdiction or a portion thereof
for a period not to exceed one year from the date it is effective.

(b) Ifa proposed interim ordinance purports to regulate, restrict, or prohibit activities relating to livestock
production, a public hearing must be held following a ten-day notice given by publication in a newspaper
of general circulation in the municipality before the interim ordinance takes effect.

(c)(1) A statutory or home rule charter city may adopt an interim ordinance that regulates, restricts, or
prohibits a housing proposal only if the ordinance is approved by majority vote of all members of the city
council.

(2) Before adopting the interim ordinance, the city council must hold a public hearing after providing
written notice to any person who has submitted a housing proposal, has a pending housing proposal, or has
provided a written request to be notified of interim ordinances related to housing proposals. The written
notice must be provided at least three business days before the public hearing. Notice also must be posted
on the city's official website, if the city has an official website.

(3) The date of the public hearing shall be the earlier of the next regularly scheduled city council meeting
after the notice period or within ten days of the notice.

(4) The activities proposed to be restricted by the proposed interim ordinance may not be undertaken
before the public hearing.

(5) For the purposes of this paragraph, "housing proposal" means a written request for city approval of
a project intended primarily to provide residential dwellings, either single family or multi-family, and involves
the subdivision or development of land or the demolition, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, or
occupancy of residential dwellings.

(d) The period of an interim ordinance applicable to an area that is affected by a city's master plan for
a municipal airport may be extended for such additional periods as the municipality may deem appropriate,
not exceeding a total additional period of 18 months. In all other cases, no interim ordinance may halt, delay,
or impede a subdivision that has been given preliminary approval, nor may any interim ordinance extend
the time deadline for agency action set forth in section 15.99 with respect to any application filed prior to
the effective date of the interim ordinance. The governing body of the municipality may extend the interim
ordinance after a public hearing and written findings have been adopted based upon one or more of the
conditions in clause (1), (2), or (3). The public hearing must be held at least 15 days but not more than 30
days before the expiration of the interim ordinance, and notice of the hearing must be published at least ten
days before the hearing. The interim ordinance may be extended for the following conditions and durations,
but, except as provided in clause (3), an interim ordinance may not be extended more than an additional 18
months:

(1) up to an additional 120 days following the receipt of the final approval or review by a federal, state,
or metropolitan agency when the approval is required by law and the review or approval has not been
completed and received by the municipality at least 30 days before the expiration of the interim ordinance;

(2) up to an additional 120 days following the completion of any other process required by a state statute,
federal law, or court order, when the process is not completed at least 30 days before the expiration of the
interim ordinance; or

Official Publication of the State of Minnesota
Revisor of Statutes


3 MINNESOTA STATUTES 2025 462.355

(3) up to an additional one year if the municipality has not adopted a comprehensive plan under this
section at the time the interim ordinance is enacted.

History: 1965 c 670 s 5; 1976 c 127 s 21; 1977 c 347 s 68; 1980 c 566 s 24; 1983 c 216 art 1 s 67;
1985 c 628 1,2; 1995 ¢ 176 s 4; 2004 c 258s 1; 2005 c 41 s 17; 1Sp2005 c 1 art 1 s 91; 2008 ¢ 297 art 1's
59; 2010 c 347 art 1s 24; 2017 c 94 art 11 s 3; ISp2019 c 3 art 3s 109

Official Publication of the State of Minnesota
Revisor of Statutes


1​                                     MINNESOTA STATUTES 2025​                                         462.355​

462.355 ADOPT, AMEND COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; INTERIM ORDINANCE.​
     Subdivision 1. Preparation and review. The planning agency shall prepare the comprehensive municipal​
plan. In discharging this duty the planning agency shall consult with and coordinate the planning activities​
of other departments and agencies of the municipality to insure conformity with and to assist in the​
development of the comprehensive municipal plan. In its planning activities the planning agency shall take​
due cognizance of the planning activities of adjacent units of government and other affected public agencies.​
The planning agency shall periodically review the plan and recommend amendments whenever necessary.​
When preparing or recommending amendments to the comprehensive plan, the planning agency of a​
municipality located within a county that is not a greater than 80 percent area, as defined in section 103G.005,​
subdivision 10b, must consider adopting goals and objectives that will protect open space and the environment.​
When preparing or recommending amendments to the comprehensive plan, the planning agency must consider​
(1) the location and dimensions of airport safety zones in any portion of the municipality, and (2) any airport​
improvements identified in the airport's most recent approved airport layout plan.​
    Subd. 1a. Update by metropolitan municipalities. Each municipality in the metropolitan area, as​
defined in section 473.121, subdivision 2, shall review and update its comprehensive plan and fiscal devices​
and official controls as provided in section 473.864, subdivision 2.​
    Subd. 2. Procedure to adopt, amend. The planning agency may, unless otherwise provided by charter​
or ordinance consistent with the municipal charter, recommend to the governing body the adoption and​
amendment from time to time of a comprehensive municipal plan. The plan may be prepared and adopted​
in sections, each of which relates to a major subject of the plan or to a major geographical section of the​
municipality. The governing body may propose the comprehensive municipal plan and amendments to it​
by resolution submitted to the planning agency. Before adopting the comprehensive municipal plan or any​
section or amendment of the plan, the planning agency shall hold at least one public hearing thereon. A​
notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be published once in the official newspaper of the​
municipality at least ten days before the day of the hearing.​
     Subd. 3. Adoption by governing body. A proposed comprehensive plan or an amendment to it may​
not be acted upon by the governing body until it has received the recommendation of the planning agency​
or until 60 days have elapsed from the date an amendment proposed by the governing body has been submitted​
to the planning agency for its recommendation. Unless otherwise provided by charter, the governing body​
may by resolution adopt and amend the comprehensive plan or portion thereof as the official municipal plan​
upon such notice and hearing as may be prescribed by ordinance. Except for amendments to permit affordable​
housing development, a resolution to amend or adopt a comprehensive plan must be approved by a two-thirds​
vote of all of the members. Amendments to permit an affordable housing development are approved by a​
simple majority of all of the members. For purposes of this subdivision, "affordable housing development"​
means a development in which at least 20 percent of the residential units are restricted to occupancy for at​
least ten years by residents whose household income at the time of initial occupancy does not exceed 60​
percent of area median income, adjusted for household size, as determined by the United States Department​
of Housing and Urban Development, and with respect to rental units, the rents for affordable units do not​
exceed 30 percent of 60 percent of area median income, adjusted for household size, as determined annually​
by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.​
    Subd. 4. Interim ordinance. (a) If a municipality is conducting studies or has authorized a study to be​
conducted or has held or has scheduled a hearing for the purpose of considering adoption or amendment of​
a comprehensive plan or official controls as defined in section 462.352, subdivision 15, or if new territory​
for which plans or controls have not been adopted is annexed to a municipality, the governing body of the​
municipality may adopt an interim ordinance applicable to all or part of its jurisdiction for the purpose of​



                                    Official Publication of the State of Minnesota​
                                                  Revisor of Statutes​


462.355​                                MINNESOTA STATUTES 2025​                                                   2​

protecting the planning process and the health, safety and welfare of its citizens. The interim ordinance may​
regulate, restrict, or prohibit any use, development, or subdivision within the jurisdiction or a portion thereof​
for a period not to exceed one year from the date it is effective.​

    (b) If a proposed interim ordinance purports to regulate, restrict, or prohibit activities relating to livestock​
production, a public hearing must be held following a ten-day notice given by publication in a newspaper​
of general circulation in the municipality before the interim ordinance takes effect.​

    (c)(1) A statutory or home rule charter city may adopt an interim ordinance that regulates, restricts, or​
prohibits a housing proposal only if the ordinance is approved by majority vote of all members of the city​
council.​

    (2) Before adopting the interim ordinance, the city council must hold a public hearing after providing​
written notice to any person who has submitted a housing proposal, has a pending housing proposal, or has​
provided a written request to be notified of interim ordinances related to housing proposals. The written​
notice must be provided at least three business days before the public hearing. Notice also must be posted​
on the city's official website, if the city has an official website.​

    (3) The date of the public hearing shall be the earlier of the next regularly scheduled city council meeting​
after the notice period or within ten days of the notice.​

    (4) The activities proposed to be restricted by the proposed interim ordinance may not be undertaken​
before the public hearing.​

    (5) For the purposes of this paragraph, "housing proposal" means a written request for city approval of​
a project intended primarily to provide residential dwellings, either single family or multi-family, and involves​
the subdivision or development of land or the demolition, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, or​
occupancy of residential dwellings.​

    (d) The period of an interim ordinance applicable to an area that is affected by a city's master plan for​
a municipal airport may be extended for such additional periods as the municipality may deem appropriate,​
not exceeding a total additional period of 18 months. In all other cases, no interim ordinance may halt, delay,​
or impede a subdivision that has been given preliminary approval, nor may any interim ordinance extend​
the time deadline for agency action set forth in section 15.99 with respect to any application filed prior to​
the effective date of the interim ordinance. The governing body of the municipality may extend the interim​
ordinance after a public hearing and written findings have been adopted based upon one or more of the​
conditions in clause (1), (2), or (3). The public hearing must be held at least 15 days but not more than 30​
days before the expiration of the interim ordinance, and notice of the hearing must be published at least ten​
days before the hearing. The interim ordinance may be extended for the following conditions and durations,​
but, except as provided in clause (3), an interim ordinance may not be extended more than an additional 18​
months:​

    (1) up to an additional 120 days following the receipt of the final approval or review by a federal, state,​
or metropolitan agency when the approval is required by law and the review or approval has not been​
completed and received by the municipality at least 30 days before the expiration of the interim ordinance;​

    (2) up to an additional 120 days following the completion of any other process required by a state statute,​
federal law, or court order, when the process is not completed at least 30 days before the expiration of the​
interim ordinance; or​



                                     Official Publication of the State of Minnesota​
                                                   Revisor of Statutes​


3​                                   MINNESOTA STATUTES 2025​                                      462.355​

    (3) up to an additional one year if the municipality has not adopted a comprehensive plan under this​
section at the time the interim ordinance is enacted.​
    History: 1965 c 670 s 5; 1976 c 127 s 21; 1977 c 347 s 68; 1980 c 566 s 24; 1983 c 216 art 1 s 67;​
1985 c 62 s 1,2; 1995 c 176 s 4; 2004 c 258 s 1; 2005 c 41 s 17; 1Sp2005 c 1 art 1 s 91; 2008 c 297 art 1 s​
59; 2010 c 347 art 1 s 24; 2017 c 94 art 11 s 3; 1Sp2019 c 3 art 3 s 109​




                                   Official Publication of the State of Minnesota​
                                                 Revisor of Statutes​


                                              2040 Comprehensive Plan                 2040 Land Use Plan - October 25, 2024
                                              Elko New Market, MN
                                                                                                                 Figure 6.4


                               27
                             7
                             6
                             5
                             4
                                                                                                §
                                                                                                ¦
                                                                                                ¨
                                                                                                35




                                                                             91
                                                                             7
                                                                             6
                                                                             5
                                                                             4                                    7
                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                  446



                                                                                  2
                                                                        2
                                                                        7
                                                                        6
                                                                        5
                                                                        4         7
                                                                                  4
                                                                                  5
                                                                                  6




Legend
Land Use Categories                        I
                                           !
                           7
                           6
                           5
                           4
                           27
      Park / Public and Semi-Public

      Low Density Residential (2.5 to 5 units per acre)

      Medium Density Residential (5 to 10 units per acre)                                 §
                                                                                          ¨
                                                                                          ¦35
      High Density Residential (10 to 30 units per acre)

      Town Center (10 to 30 units per acre)

                                                                            91
      Mixed Use (8 to 30 units per acre)

      Commercial
                                                                            7
                                                                            5
                                                                            6
                                                                            4
      Business / Limited Industrial Park

      Industrial

      City Limit Boundary (2024)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Official Zoning Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               December 4, 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           250 ST E                                                                                   OPAL AV                                                                                                                                                                         250 ST E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      250 ST E


                                                                                                                               27
                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                              4                                               NEVADA AV                                                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4   91
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SBU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XERXES AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PILL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DAKOTA AV


                                                                                                                                               D- 2
                                                                                                                                             PU 3 3
                                                                                                                                                 d
                                                                                                                                                   10
                                                                                                                                                                   255 ST E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ¨  35

                                                                                                                                              Or


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DUPONT AV                                             46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I35



                                                                                                                                                               PU
                                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 255 ST E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BRADY S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CARTER ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D- 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PU 2 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             r d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RILEY R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O

                                                                                                                              TEXAS AV
                                                                                                                                                                           JAMES PKWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JAMES PKWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12

                                                                                                                                                                                          IDAHO AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D- 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                               PU 3 3     D-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Or      PU 1 76                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           d                   TO                          MAVERICK AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NATCHEZ AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CE R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DEU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C   T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TO 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R5                1 ST N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2                                                                                    TO N

                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                4   2                                   260 ST E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            B1                 B1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TODD ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MAIN ST

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN ST                                         260 ST E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PLA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CE                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4                                       FRONTAGE RD               SB I3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I35


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHURCH ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        260 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KET
                                                                                                                                                                                                               R2                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOUIS ST W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B5


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WEBSTER ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NEWTON CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PU 1 56                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      d                        R4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAC ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E TO

                                                                                                                                                                                                               WAGNER WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                         R3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WILD WINGS PASS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SB I3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PAUL ST                                                          JEAN WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PARK ST                                                                          R3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HOLL ORTHY L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Y CT    N                                                                           FRANCE AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4                            SEURER ST                  SEURER CT                                                                                            2 & 27


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OVERLOOK CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D-                                                                                                                                                           D-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IRVING AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PU 1 55                                                                          C                                                                          PU 2 3 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   d




Map prepared by the City of Elko New Market Community Development Department 6/18/25 - Zoning Map 12.4.25.mxd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Or                                                                            AN                                                                               &

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ANNA ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KNIGHTS RD                                                                                                                FR                                                                               49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       d1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WIL D                                                                          Or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XERXES TRL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SAXON DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VE                                                            AARON DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                               CUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ST                                                      9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHELLY CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PU 2 81



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WOODCREST LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                        E NA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TH O

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CEDRIC LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            d
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ROW                                                                                                                                                                                                 Or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HARVEST DR                                                  L        OOK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OVER                                                                                                                                                                                         265 ST E



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OAKRIDGE WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PRAIRIE ST



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WOODCREST DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ST



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EVERGREEN TRL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHOWEN AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8                 R3                                                              O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S                     2 & 27                                                                                         DC
                                                                                                                 Legend                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OAK                    D-                                                                                                   R

                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PU 2 3 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ZANE AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DREW AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TC
                                                                                                                    Zoning                                   !                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             d1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     &



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OAKRIDG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E      PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                267 ST E
                                                                                                                         R1          - Low Density Residential                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WEX                                                         PON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRAND AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SW                           CUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CAMBRIDGE LN                                                                                                                         G                  AY                             VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                          D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DO
                                                                                                                         R2          - Low Density Residential                                         PU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D                                                                                                  OO                                    OSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IR                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                         R3          - Medium Density Residential
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WIND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N CT                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MEADOW RIDGE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ASA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                         R4          - High Density Residential                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GLENBOROUGH DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LONGRIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       270 ST E                                                                                          PHE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 270 ST E
                                                                                                                         R5          - Downtown Residential                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           270 ST E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KOR
                                                                                                                                                                      NEVADA
                                                                                                                                     - Neighborhood Business                 AV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                YR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THOMAS AV
                                                                                                                         B1                                                                                                                                                                                                    PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I DG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VE                                           TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DAKOTA AV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DUPONT AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D- &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NO N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PU 99 3
                                                                                                                                     - Downtown Business                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VE
                                                                                                                         B2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VD                                                                                                                   PU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PU                                                    r d 1 20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BL                         CL O                                                                                                                                                                                                          O 6&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                                         B4          - Highway Business
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6                                    273 ST E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PU 1 71
                                                                                                                         B5          - General Business                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D- &                                                                                                                                DUPONT CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PU 99 3



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ST ANDREWS DR
                                                                                                                         I127 - Limited Industrial
                                                                                                                          7
                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                         INS         - Institutional
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PU 1 62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     r d 1 20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O 6&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 35
                                                                                                                         UR          - Urban Reserve
                                                                                                                         PUD - Planned Unit Development                                                                                                                                                                                            275 ST E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VERNON AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           275 ST E
                                                                                                                         City Limits

                                                                                                                         Parcels (Scott County 3.25.24)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    91
                                                                                                                0

                                                                                                                Source: MnGeo, Scott Co, MnDNR
                                                                                                                                                          0.5
                                                                                                                                                            Miles                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6                                                                                         D-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PU 148
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            r d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1                             BEARD AV


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                278 ST E                                                                                                                                                                  O
