                                                                         Request for
                                                                     City Council Action

DEPARTMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATING DEPARTMENT           REQUESTOR:                                         MEETING DATE:
Planning                         City Planner Licht                                 27 July 2026
PRESENTER(s)                     REVIEWED BY:                                       ITEM #:
City Planner Licht               City Administrator/Finance Director Flaherty       4.1 – Interim Ordinance
                                 City Attorney Kendall

STRATEGIC VISION
MEETS:     THE CITY OF OTSEGO:
     X     Is a strong organization that is committed to leading the community through innovative communication.
     X     Has proactively expanded infrastructure to responsibly provide core services.
           Is committed to delivery of quality emergency service responsive to community needs and expectations in a
           cost-effective manner.
     X     Is a social community with diverse housing, service options, and employment opportunities.
           Is a distinctive, connected community known for its beauty and natural surroundings.

AGENDA ITEM DETAILS
RECOMMENDATION:
City staff recommends the City Council adopt an Interim Ordinance.

ARE YOU SEEKING APPROVAL OF A CONTRACT?                     IS A PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED?
No                                                          To be held by City Council on July 27, 2026
BACKGROUND/JUSTIFICATION:

Considerable attention is being given to the development of data centers in Minnesota and nationwide as the
demand for these facilities has increased with the expansion of internet-based services resulting in both more
facilities and larger facilities. Proposals for data center developments have generated controversy in other
communities due to perceptions about potential impacts and compatibility concerns. Otsego has not received an
application for development of a data center, and no known projects are pending.

It is advantageous for the City to anticipate potential development of various land uses in establishing allowed uses
and performance standards within the Zoning Ordinance. This approach allows a broader consideration of the
characteristics of, and potential issues associated with, various land uses and how to allow and regulate them instead
of having to react to an application for a specific project. The City Council Administrative Subcommittee raised the
question as to how data centers are regulated by the City and directed the Planning Commission to study this matter
in further detail.

The Planning Commission discussed regulatory concepts pertaining to data centers at a special meeting on 6 July
2026. City staff outlined to the Planning Commission that data centers as a potential land use requires further study
as to appropriate locations within the City, the conditions under which Data Centers may be allowed, appropriate
zoning districts, use performance standards, compatibility with existing and planned land uses, and potential impacts
to City service capacity and infrastructure. This study would be intended to be the basis as to preparation of
amendments to the Zoning Ordinance and other official controls to properly address the potential development of
data centers. The Planning Commission concurred with the recommendations of City staff that data centers as a land
use regulated by the Zoning Ordinance require further evaluation.


Minnesota Statutes, Section 462.355, Subdivision 4 authorizes the City Council to adopt an Interim Ordinance to
regulate, restrict, or prohibit any use, development, or subdivision to allow the City to undertake a planning process
to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the community and to consider adoption or amendment of the Zoning
Ordinance or other official controls. The Planning Commission, following their discussion on 6 July 2026,
recommended by a 7-0 vote that the City Council consider establishing a one-year moratorium for applications for the
development of a data center to allow a zoning study to be completed.

City staff have drafted an Interim Ordinance to impose a one-year moratorium prohibiting the development of a data
center at any location within the City. The Interim Ordinance authorizes the Planning Commission to proceed with a
land use study to evaluate data centers and potential regulations. Adoption of the Interim Ordinance requires that a
public hearing be held, which has been noticed to be held by the City Council at its meeting on 27 July 2026.

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS ATTACHED:
      •   Planning Memorandum dated 2 July 2026
      •   Ordinance 2026-11


POSSIBLE MOTION
PLEASE WORD MOTION AS YOU WOULD LIKE IT TO APPEAR IN THE MINUTES:
Motion to adopt Ordinance 2026-11 imposing a moratorium and authorizing study of official controls for data centers.


BUDGET INFORMATION
FUNDING:                                                  BUDGETED:
N/A                                                       N/A


                             3601 Thurston Avenue
                             Anoka, MN 55303
                             763.231.5840
                             TPC@PlanningCo.com




MEMORANDUM

TO:                     Otsego Planning Commission

FROM:                   D. Daniel Licht

DATE:                   2 July 2026

RE:                      Otsego – Zoning Ordinance; Data Centers

TPC FILE:               101.01


BACKGROUND
Considerable attention is being given to the development of data centers in Minnesota and nationwide
as the demand for these facilities has increased with the expansion of internet-based services resulting
in both more facilities and larger facilities. Proposals for data center developments have generated
controversy due to perceptions about potential impacts and compatibility concerns in other
communities. Otsego has not received an application for development of a data center, and no known
projects are pending.

It is advantageous for the City to anticipate potential development of various land uses in establishing
allowed uses and performance standards within the Zoning Ordinance. This approach allows a broader
consideration of the characteristics of, and potential issues associated with, various land uses and how
to allow and regulate them instead of having to react to an application for a specific project. The City
Council Administrative Subcommittee raised the question as to how data centers are regulated by the
City and directed the Planning Commission to study this matter in further detail. This memorandum
outlines initial topics for consideration related to data centers as a land use and potential regulations.
The Planning Commission will discuss data center regulatory concepts at a work session on 6 July 2026.

Exhibits:
    • Future Land Use Plan map
    • Understanding Data Centers, National League of Cities
    • Data Centers; Zoning Practice Issue #6, APA, June 2022
    • The Physical Footprint of Artificial Intelligence; Zoning Practice Vol. 42, APA, October 2025




                                                     1


ANALYSIS

Definition. The Zoning Ordinance does not include a definition of data center as a distinct land use in
Section 11-2-2. To establish regulations to address the specific characteristics of data centers, adopting
definitions will be necessary. The regulation of data centers is intended to apply to facilities as a
principal use of property, taking one of two forms. The first is a stand-alone facility within a single
building that may be owned or operated for one business operation. The other, which is the source of
most interest and controversy, is a data center campus (or data farm) having multiple principal buildings
providing internet-based services as a core business function. City staff has drafted the following initial
definitions for future inclusion in the Zoning Ordinance, which would not include accessory uses:

    •   Data center: A facility within a single building used primarily for the storage,
        management, processing, and transmission of digital data, which houses computer or
        network equipment, systems, services, appliances, and other associated components
        related to digital data storage and operations, together with its accessory and
        appurtenant facilities, which may also include offices, air handlers, back-up power
        generators, water cooling systems and water storage facilities, utility substations, and
        other associated infrastructure necessary to support sustained operations at a data
        center.

    •   Data center campus: A facility comprised of more than one data center building, that may
        be located upon one property or contiguous properties owned or operated by a single
        business operation ol that are otherwise interconnected by power supply, communication
        systems, power generation or other operational systems to form a unified data center
        facility. This definition includes uses described by terms such as “technology campus”,
        “cloud computing campus” or similar phrases and terms.

Land Use. Data center operations are a form of commercial or industrial activity. Data centers provide
services, but do not involve extensive office operations. Data centers do not involve physical industrial
processes such as manufacturing, assembly, processing, or warehousing and do not generate significant
traffic either from passenger vehicles or semi-tractor/trailers. The site and building plans are industrial
with precast concrete buildings or similar industrial building types. Data centers may also have
equipment such as cooling systems, electric transformers, or generators outside of principal buildings.

The Future Land Use Plan map guides areas within the City for development of commercial, office, and
industrial activities. Based on the characteristics of data centers, they would be appropriately located on
properties guided for Office or Industrial land uses.

Office land uses have been guided for properties adjacent to Commercial land uses with the intent of
developing smaller-scale, high-employment operations that would serve to provide daytime market
support for commercial retail and service businesses to increase market vitality.

Data centers are likely most appropriately addressed as industrial uses to be allowed only in areas
guided for Industrial land use by the Future Land Use Plan.




                                                     2


Zoning Districts. The City has statutory authority as a legislative action to determine the zoning districts
in which specific uses are to be allowed. The Zoning Ordinance currently allows data centers as a
permitted use within the B-4, Business Office District; I-1, Limited Industrial District; and I-2, General
Industrial District.

Based on the land use discussion above, data centers should not continue to be an allowed use within
the B-4 District.

Inclusion of data centers in the I-1 District and the I-2 District is appropriate from a land use perspective,
but allowance as a permitted use may be problematic. Permitted uses are allowed within various zoning
districts subject to compliance with the performance standards of the Zoning Ordinance. Section 11-9-2
of the Zoning Ordinance provides that proposals for specific developments within the I-1 District and the
I-2 District require applications for site and building plan review that are subject to review by the
Planning Commission and approval of the City Council. No public hearing is required by State Statute or
the Zoning Ordinance for site and building plan review applications. Site and building plan review
decisions are to be based strictly on established performance standards; there is no opportunity for
discretion related to potential impacts of a specific development such as for compatibility with the
surrounding area, impacts on traffic, or impacts to City services and infrastructure.

Uses allowed as conditional uses within a zoning district are subject to a more robust review process
that affords the City authority, albeit still limited, to consider proposal specific factors and includes
opportunity for public input through a required public hearing. Due to perceived concerns for potential
negative impacts of data centers including, but not limited to, water use, electric service demands,
noise, exterior lighting, City staff recommends that continued allowance of data centers within the City
be as a conditional use. However, itt must be emphasized that the conditional use review process
provides discretion only within adopted standards and legally supported conditions; community
opposition to a proposed development alone is not legal justification for a conditional use permit
application to be denied.

Defining data centers as a single principal building and data center campuses as multiple principal
buildings or properties under common ownership and operation also allows the City to determine
where data center uses are appropriate based on their intensity. The City may elect to allow data
centers in both the I-1 District and the I-2 District, while allowing data center campuses only in the I-2
District. The size of the facility in terms of building square footage or service capacity may also be used
to determine appropriate location for data centers by zoning district. Determining whether to allow
data centers and data center campuses as a conditional use in one or both the I-1 District and I-2 District
should consider the locations guided by the Future Land Use Plan for light industrial and industrial land
uses corresponding to these zoning districts, respectively.

Lot Requirements. The Zoning Ordinance establishes minimum lot area and width requirements for
each zoning district for the purpose of subdividing larger tracts into smaller lots that can be feasibly
developed with the uses allowed within the zoning district. The minimum lot area and width
requirements are supplemented by building coverage and impervious surface limits to control the bulk
of development within a lot, provide greenspace for screening and aesthetics, and facilitate stormwater
management. As these standards are minimums, the larger or more intense the use of a property, these
standards (together with minimum setback requirements) may result a larger lot area to offset the
increased intensity of the use. A requirement for data centers to have a larger minimum lot area, lot
width, or specific building coverage and impervious surface limits may be considered as a means of
providing physical separation of a data center from surrounding uses.
                                                      3


Setback. Minimum setbacks from property lines are established generally for each zoning district. The
primary purpose of setbacks is physical separation from public streets for visibility or from surrounding
land uses for compatibility and aesthetic reasons. Setback requirements also work to facilitate functional
site plans in terms of access and circulation within a lot and avoidance of congestion on public streets.

A setback requirement may also be established for specific uses to provide for increased separation
from surrounding uses that may be potentially sensitive to compatibility issues. The concerns about data
centers for land use compatibility typically pertain to surrounding residential uses. To this end, the City
may consider a setback requirement for data centers from properties guided by the Future Land Use
Plan for future residential use, residential zoning districts, existing residential uses or a combination
thereof. Requiring an increased setback serves to mitigate potential impacts of a data center.

An increased setback requirement for data centers from properties guided for residential land use,
residential zoning districts, or with existing residential uses may also be made reciprocal. A reciprocal
setback requirement would not allow a new residential use to be established within the setback area of
an existing data center. This preserves the desired separation between data centers and residential uses
long term ensuring that no new compatibility issues are created by residential uses encroaching close to
an existing data center.

The Future Land Use Plan includes areas guided for Industrial land use at the perimeter of the City
abutting the City of St. Michael, City of Albertville, and Monticello Township. Establishing a setback
requirement from properties guided, zoned, or used for residential purposes cannot be applied across
city boundaries as the City does not control the land use within the abutting jurisdiction. If there is a
concern of the Planning Commission as to potential impacts of a data center crossing over a City
boundary, a setback from a jurisdictional boundary may be considered for the same purpose of
mitigating potential noise, exterior lighting, and visual impacts.

Water Use. Data centers employ cooling systems to dissipate heat and maintain the facilities and
equipment at required temperatures. Use of water-based systems has potential for issues related to
surface waters, groundwater resources, utility system capacity, and water rates. Cooling may be
accomplished using either water- or air-based systems, although new alternatives are being developed
with the intent of reducing demand for water use. Mandating use of closed-loop water systems, for
example, can mitigate concerns regarding excessive water usage for data centers.

The development of a data center in Otsego would be subject to mandatory connection to City water
utilities as required by Section 8-1-3 of the City Code. The City water system operates under a permit
approved by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources for appropriation of water. The aquifers
from which the City draws water are deep underground; water use from these aquifers does not
significantly affect water supplies for individual private wells. The City has adopted a Water System
Master Plan that guides the operation and expansion of the water utility system.

The Water System Master Plan estimates future water use based on growth forecasts and existing and
future land uses guided by the 2023 Otsego Comprehensive Plan. Water system improvements are not
funded by general City funds, such as property taxes, but by utility access and connection fees paid by
new development and user fees. Timing for improvements to the water system to add capacity or
expand the service area planned by the Water System Master Plan is coordinated with the Capital
Improvement Plan to estimate costs and allocate funding to ensure financial sustainability for the City
generally and system users who pay utility bills.

                                                     4


One of the criteria in Section 11-4-2.F of the Zoning Ordinance for considering an application for a
Conditional Use Permit is that “the proposed use can be accommodated by existing public services and
facilities and will not overburden the City's service capacity”. The City may establish a requirement that
a application for approval of a data center as a conditional use include water consumption plan to
outline water use requirements for the proposed use and impacts to municipal water supplies and
groundwater or surface water resources. This study would be evaluated by the City Engineer to
determine whether the City water system has capacity to accommodate the proposed use as well as
other planned development consistent with the 2023 Comprehensive Plan and Water System Master
Plan. If the City determines that there is not sufficient capacity available or planned to accommodate
the proposed data center, the City, at its discretion, may require the developer to fund the necessary
improvements or deny the Conditional Use Permit application.

Electric Service. There are three high-capacity electric transmission lines that bisect Otsego and
substations that could be used to serve data center uses. Proposals for the development of data centers
in other jurisdictions has brought forward concerns about costs for electric infrastructure and utility
rates.

Electric utilities are defined as essential services and regulation of electric utilities is largely beyond the
City’s jurisdiction, addressed at a State level by the Public Utilities Commission. The City is only allowed
to regulate electric overhead transmission lines and substations up to 100 kilovolts. Services less than 33
kilovolts are subject to administrative approval whereas facilities of more than 33 kilovolts and up to
100 kilovolts require approval of a conditional use permit in all zoning districts.

An application for development of a data center may require electric utility improvements that are
subject to City regulation in accordance with Chapter 32 of the Zoning Ordinance. The City may, as part
of a conditional use permit review process, require an electric consumption plan to be submitted to
identify electric service needs as represented by the utility provider and any improvements associated
with the proposed use. The need for additional transmission lines to provide service to a proposed data
center would also be required to be identified so that the new infrastructure can be evaluated
concurrent with the data center proposal.

Noise. Cooling systems utilized by data centers generate noise, which has been identified as a primary
concern for perceived impacts from data centers. The concern expressed relates not only to the sound
level, but also to the constant nature of the noise.

    •   The City has adopted Minnesota Pollution Control Agency noise regulation rules as Section 11-
        16-10 of the Zoning Ordinance as a general performance standard, which would apply to data
        centers. The City may also consider data center specific standards such as the range of sound
        regulated.

    •   Noise mitigation can also relate to addressing water use concerns; cooling fans are the main
        source of sound from data centers. Requiring closed-loop or alternatives to fans can mitigate
        noise generation for data centers as well as minimize water use.

    •   Setback requirements are also an effective means of noise mitigation as sound levels decrease
        exponentially over horizontal distances.



                                                      5


The City may require, as part of the conditional use permit process, a noise study to be submitted that
details existing noise levels, outlines noise mitigation to be employed by the facility, and estimates post-
development noise levels. Cities have also used a requirement for a post-development sound study to
demonstrate the accuracy of the initial study estimates and effectiveness of the noise mitigation once
the facility is operational. The pre- and post-development noise studies are important for the City to be
able to determine compliance with established performance standards for noise generation either
generally or specific to data centers.

Screening. Data centers may have equipment or facilities that are not fully enclosed within a building.
The Zoning Ordinance includes general performance standards for required screening in Section 11-19-
3. The performance standards for data centers as a conditional use may include requirements that any
equipment or facility not enclosed within a building must be screened using berms, landscaping,
fences/walls, or a combination thereof with minimum height and opacity requirements. Setback
requirements may also be used as a means of screening a data centers from view of major roadways
and surrounding uses. The Planning Commission has had extended discussions as to screening for recent
industrial development applications involving outdoor storage, such that consideration of screening
requirements for data centers may also serve as a basis for an update of general screening performance
standards for all commercial, office, and industrial uses within the City.

Exterior Lighting. The Zoning Ordinance establishes limits for exterior lighting in Section 11-16-6 of the
Zoning Ordinance. The City may consider developing exterior lighting performance standards for data
centers as a conditional use such as limiting the amount of blue light allowed, decreasing the maximum
intensity of allowed exterior lighting, or requiring that exterior lighting be reduced during overnight
hours. City staff would note that the current lighting standards of the Zoning Ordinance were adopted in
2002 before the advent of LED exterior lighting. City staff has noted concerns that the current Zoning
Ordinance standards do not adequately regulate LED lighting related to the list of potential issues above.
To this end, the Planning Commission may consider developing lighting standards for data centers as a
parallel effort to an update of the general performance standards of the Zoning Ordinance to be applied
to all commercial, office, and industrial uses.

Environmental Review. Minnesota Rules Chapter 4410 establishes requirements, procedures, and
criteria for environmental review for development. The purpose of environmental review is to evaluate
and understand the potential effects that a development will have on the environment. Environmental
review documents contain information that addresses the significant environmental issues of a
proposed development and is made available to governmental agencies and the public early in the
development review process. The environmental review process is intended to guide issuing, amending,
and denying development applications to avoid or minimize adverse environmental effects and to
restore and enhance environmental quality. Environmental review informs government decision-making
but does not itself approve or deny a proposed project.

Environmental review involves preparation of studies based on information requirements set forth by
Minnesota Rules. An Environmental Assessment Worksheet is a preliminary scoping document to
determine if a development has potential for significant environmental effects. The findings of an
Environmental Assessment Worksheet are used to determine if preparation of a more detailed and
comprehensive Environmental Impact Statement is to be required. Environmental review may also
follow a process known as Alternative Urban Area Review that addresses substantially the same issues
and follows the same process as the Environmental Assessment Worksheet and Environmental Impact
Statement. In most cases, the City serves as the Responsible Government Unit for reviewing the
environmental review and making findings as to potential for significant environmental effects.
                                                     6


Minnesota Rules 4410.1000 and 4410.2000 establish provisions for when a project requires preparation
of an Environmental Assessment Worksheet or an Environmental Impact Statement, respectively. There
is no specific requirement in Minnesota Rules for requiring environmental review for data centers,
which is a potential State-level regulatory topic. The most likely triggers for mandatory preparation of an
Environmental Assessment Worksheet or an Environmental Impact Statement are the conversion of
undeveloped land for industrial use based on acreage or construction of industrial building square
footage exceeding specified thresholds. The City may require preparation of an environmental review as
a discretionary action if it determines, at its discretion, that a proposed project may have the potential
for significant environmental effects. Minnesota Rules 4100.1100 also provides for a petition process
whereby any person may request the preparation of an Environmental Assessment Worksheet for a
project by filing a petition signed by at least 100 individuals who reside in or own property in the State,
although the Responsible Government Unit determines if the environmental review is to be required.

Implementation. The discussion provided by this memorandum serves as a general outline for
development of amendments to the Zoning Ordinance to address allowance and regulation of data
centers within the City. Immediate focus needs to be given to defining data center uses, determining the
zoning districts data centers and data center campuses are to be allowed in, and changing data centers
and data center campuses from permitted uses to conditional uses within the zoning districts the uses
are to be allowed in. A more concentrated effort will be needed to develop performance standards to
address perceived compatibility issues and impacts to City services and infrastructure.

Otsego is not the only government jurisdiction initiating a review of data center regulations. Cities and
counties (including Wright County) throughout Minnesota and nationally are undertaking similar efforts
either in anticipation of or in response to development proposals. There is also growing discussion as to
the need for State-level regulation of data centers, especially in terms of electric utility use and
environmental impacts. State level regulations would take longer to develop and implement as a
legislative process than a city may implement through zoning regulations.
Amendment of the Zoning Ordinance to ensure appropriate allowance and regulation needs to occur in
a timely manner to have provisions adopted prior to a data center being proposed in Otsego. However,
it would also be beneficial for the City, in developing its own regulations, to review and consider the
efforts of other government jurisdictions. Minnesota Statutes Section 462.355, Subd. 4 allows the City to
adopt an interim ordinance establishing a moratorium for the purpose of preparing development
regulations.

A moratorium may be established for a period of one year from the date of adoption. If amendments to
the Zoning Ordinance are complete before the end of the moratorium period, the moratorium can be
repealed. The Statute also provides that a moratorium can be extended if certain criteria are met.
Minnesota Statutes Section 462.355, Subd. 4 requires that the City Council conduct a public hearing to
consider the proposed interim ordinance. City staff requests that the Planning Commission make a
recommendation to the City Council as to establishment of a moratorium for data center uses to allow
for consideration of amendments to the Zoning Ordinance regulating such uses.




                                                    7


CONCLUSION

The Planning Commission will have an initial discussion of data centers and data center regulations at a
work session on 6 July 2026. The purpose of this work session is for questions and comments from the
Planning Commission about data centers and how the City may consider regulating this land use. City
staff requests the Planning Commission recommend whether the City Council should establish a
moratorium to allow further study without concern for an application being submitted that the City
would be required to react to.


c.      Adam Flaherty, City Administrator/Finance Director
        Audra Etzel, City Clerk
        Ron Wagner, City Engineer
        David Kendall, City Attorney




                                                    8


                                            7
                                            6
                                            5
                                            4
                                            39
                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                            6                                                          7
                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                       42
                                                                                                                            39
                                                                                                                                                                                                        COMPREHENSIVE PLAN 2023
                                                                               7
                                                                               6
                                                                               5
                                                                               4
                                                                               19


                                                                                                                                                                             7
                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                             39




                                                                                                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                                                                       42


                                                                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                   42




                                                                               7
                                                                               6
                                                                               5
                                                                               4
                                                                               19

                                §
                                ¦
                                ¨94                                               7
                                                                                  4
                                                                                  5
                                                                                  6
                                                                                  38
                                                                                                                      7
                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                      38
                                                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                              38




                                      7
                                      6
                                      5
                                      4
                                      37
                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                            F
                                                                                                                                            137                                                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     42



                           7
                           6
                           5
                           4
                           18




                                                                                    LEGEND
     ADOPTED: Res 2023-52,14 Aug 23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                36
                                                                                        Planning Districts     LD Residential (Large Lot)   MHD Residential         Office
    AMENDED: Res 2024-52, 22 Jul 24
                                                                                        Rural                  LD Residential               Mixed Use               Industrial
                                                                                        Rural Residential      LMD Residential              Commercial              Light Industrial
                                                                                                                                                                    Public/Quasi Public


                                                                                                                                                                                            DISCLAIMER:

                                                                                                             FUTURE LAND USE PLAN
                                                                                    É
                                                                                                                                                                                            This product is for informational purposes and may not have been
                                        0      0.25    0.5              1
                                                                                                                                                                                            prepared for, or be suitable for legal, engineering, or surveying
                                                                                                                                                                                            purposes. Users of this information should review or consult the
                                                      Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                            primary data and information sources to ascertain the usability
                                                                                                                                                                                            of the information.
K:\cad_eng\PROJECTS\GIS\TPC\Otsego\Comprensive Plan 2012\Future Land Use Map


NATIONAL
LEAGUE
OF CITIES

A CENTURY OF STRENGTHENING CITIES

(EPI Center

CENTER FOR SCIENTIFIC
EVIDENCE IN PUBLIC ISSUES

AVAAAS

A PRIMER FOR LOCAL GOVERNMENTS:

UNDERSTANDING

DATA CENTERS

What is a Data Center?

Data centers are facilities that provide critical
infrastructure to power modern digital services.
There are different types of data centers, often

shaped by the primary function(s) of the facility.

Most data centers house servers (connected
computers) and data storage systems capable
of vast numbers of calculations and computing
applications. Often referred to as “the cloud,”
data centers provide the necessary hardware
for internet connectivity, large scale software
systems, and the computational demands of
traditional and generative artificial

intelligence (Al).

Why Talk about
Data Centers?

Significant increases in the use of Al, and to
a lesser extent, cloud computing and other

digital services, is driving greater demand for
the physical infrastructure that supports these
services and technologies. Data centers are
the unseen backbone of our digital economy,
yet their presence and impacts, both positive
and negative, are often overlooked in local
governance discussions. In fact, data center
facilities can provide significant benefits for
communities, including tax revenue, enhanced
digital connectivity and new jobs, but also
present challenges such as increased

energy demand, water usage and land

use considerations.

Local leaders can take a proactive approach to
planning data center development by addressing
sustainability, zoning and infrastructure concerns
to shape these facilities so that they are designed
and operated to best serve community interests.
This fact sheet outlines basic elements of

data centers to help policymakers begin

these discussions.


Types of Data Centers

Enterprise & Internal Data Centers

Privately owned and operated, these facilities
manage proprietary information technology

(IT). The average on-site data center typically
houses between 2,000 and 5,000 servers ona
site ranging from 20,000 to 100,000 square feet.
They draw around 100 megawatts (MW)

of power!

Colocation Centers

These third-party facilities lease out space,
power and cooling infrastructure to multiple
organizations. Businesses use these centers to
reduce infrastructure costs?

Hyperscale Data Centers
Built by major technology companies such as
Amazon, Google and Microsoft, these large-scale
nters handle enormous computing demands,
including Al and cloud services. A hyperscale
data center is defined as containing at least
5,000 servers, occupying at least 10,000 square
feet of physical space end having an energy draw
of over 100 MW of power?

Design Features of
Data Centers

Data centers are typically located near necessary
infrastructure like high-voltage power lines and
high-speed fiber optic networks. They can also
require substantial land use. This means you can
often find data centers in suouroan or rural areas,
or industrial zones, where these needs can be
met. In addition to proximity to power sources,
proximity to end-users helps reduce delays in
data transfer and can improve the soeed of cloud
and Al-powered service delivery. Climate can

be another influential factor for the location of
data centers. Because servers require cooling,
differences in environment can increase the
strain on air-conditioning or water-based

cooling systems.

In terms of their appearance, data centers tend
to resemble warehouses‘ — large and windowless
— to support a highly controlled environment
optimized for equipment performance, energy
efficiency, and physical security. Flat roofs are
common and necessary for housing mechanical
equipment like HVAC units, but also offer
opportunities for sustainability features such

as solar panels or reflective coatings. While
functional needs inform design choices, local
leaders can consider the impact these facilities
have on the character of their community.

Components of Data Centers

Data centers consist of several critical components that ensure efficient operation and reliability.

Source: httos /datacenteruniversity.be/whats-inside-a-data-center, To view this interactive graphic visit

the Data Center University website.

1° ‘Servers
The backbone of data processing and
storage, servers are computers
connected together to run applications
and computing tasks.

2 Storage Systems
Data centers house vast amounts of digital
information, stored on solid-state drives or
hard disk drives.

Networking Equipment
Includes routers, switches and firewalls that
manage data traffic and security.

4 Cooling Systems
Prevent overheating by using air or liquid
cooling methods to maintain optimal
operating temperatures for computers.

5 Power Infrastructure
Includes backup generators and
uninterruptible power supplies to ensure
continuous operation.

6 Security Systems
Physical and cyber security measures such
as biometric access controls, surveillance
cameras and fire suppression systems.


Growth and Impact of Data Centers

USA Data Centers

© oO ia)
®

om

© Po} © ae “020 3

Mexico

Source: httos:/

Global demand for data center capacity is
expected to surge, driven largely by the rapid
growth of Al workloads. Demand for Al-capable
data centers — which need more computing
power and energy — is expected to rise sharply.
Demand could grow by 22 percent annually,
potentially reaching an energy demand of 219
gigawatts (GW) in 2030 compared to 60 GW

in 2024. By 2030, 70 percent of all data center
needs could be tied to supporting advanced Al
applications and use cases.° Innovation in cooling
technologies, energy efficiency, Al algorithms
and semiconductor design could alter

current projects.

: e .

ie)

Bahamas

usa, To view the interactive map, visit the USA Data Center website.

The global data center industry is projected to
grow from $269 billion in 2025 to more than
$580 billion by 2032, with an annual growth

rate of 11.7 percent.© There are more than 3,000
data centers in the U.S. It is estimated that of the
roughly 1,100 hyperscale data centers globally,
over half are located in the U.S. as of late 2024.’

There is a growing strain on infrastructure as
Al-driven demand accelerates. Within the U.S.,
states like Virginia and Texas are seeing the
fastest growth in data center construction
These same states are also experiencing some
of the sharpest increases in commercial energy
consumption.

Preparing for
the Future

As digital infrastructure continues to expand
to accommodate demand, city leaders are
increasingly likely to encounter proposals
for new data center development. Local

Endnotes

1 IBM. (2024, March 21). What is a by

centertt typer

20centers%3/

leaders may need to coordinate with state
regulators, utilities and tech companies when
considering data center development. Additional
considerations for city leaders include looking
at the environmental impacts of data centers, as
well as zoning, permitting and integration into
community development plans.

2. Miet, H. (2024), nea Guidelines for Data conte Development. Urban Land Institute. htt
=whitep.
Siemans SIDSEEECIC7E!

3 IBM, (2024, March 21). What is a hyperscale data center?

ulLora/-/rr
pdf?rev=9.4¢

25 /rese
8 aoe

4 https://research.gooale/pubs/the-datac

aper_|

‘a-computer-an-introduction-to-the-design-of-warehouse-scale-machines-

A

5. Srivathsan, B., et al. (2024, October 29). Al power: Expanding data center capacity to meet growing demand. McKinsey.

httos:/v ackin

industries/technoloay-med

4-telecommunications/our-insigh expanding-data:

center-ca

6 Ibid.

y-to-meet

ing-demand

7 Synergy Research Group. (2025, March 19). Hyperscale Data Center Count Hits 1,136; Average Size Increases; US Accounts

for 54% of Total Capacity. httos:/
increases-us-accounts-for-54-of:

sraresearch.
|-capacity

8 U.S. Energy Information Administration. (n.d.). Electricity Data Browser. httos://w

s/hyperscale-d

enter-count-hits-136-aver

age-size-

gov/electricity/data/bro'



ZONING PRACTICE ,....: ae

AMERICAN PLANNING ASSOCIATION

@ ISSUE NUMBER 6

PRACTICE DATA CENTERS



Zoning for Data Centers and
Cryptocurrency Mining
By David Morley, aicp



Data centers are the physical facilities where
the internet lives. Fundamentally, they con-
sist of networked computer systems used
for data storage and processing, along with
supporting equipment, such as batteries,
back-up power generators, and cooling
devices. Modern data centers are the direct
descendants of the, so-called, telecom hotels
that began springing up in downtowns in the




                                                                                                                                                    Chad Davis / Flickr (CC BY 2.0)
late 1990s to accommodate the rapid expan-
sion of the commercial internet and, before
that, of automated telephone exchange
facilities that made it possible to place land-
line telephone calls across a city, the nation,
or the world (Evans-Cowley 2002).
      An emerging segment of the data center
market consists of facilities dedicated in                  A hyperscale Google data center in Council Bluffs, Iowa.
whole or part to “mining” cryptocurrency.
A cryptocurrency is a decentralized digital
currency that uses encrypted data strings to
denote individual units, or coins, and a peer-    The article concludes with short profiles of    operators that specialize in leasing space in
to-peer database known as a blockchain to         local zoning approaches that may serve as       the same facility to multiple companies (i.e.,
maintain a secure ledger of transactions.         models for others.                              collocated data centers) may be more open
Several of the most popular cryptocurren-                                                         to infill sites and existing structures, espe-
cies, most notably Bitcoin, require extremely     DEMAND DRIVERS                                  cially if those sites have access to fiber optic
complex computations to verify each trans-        Industry analysts predict sustained growth      infrastructure.
action and add a record, or block, for that       in data center construction in the coming             Data centers use a lot of electricity
transaction to the blockchain. Whoever            years (Dunbar and Bonar 2021). This includes    (see below) to power processing and stor-
verifies a transaction first receives a new       demand for larger and larger “hyperscale”       age hardware and to keep that hardware
cryptocurrency coin as a reward. While, theo-     data centers as well as more widely distrib-    cool. The amount of electricity (and often
retically, anyone with a computer server can      uted “edge” data centers (Sowry et al. 2018).   water) needed for cooling is higher in warm,
“mine” new coins by helping to verify these       Data center developers (or operators) are       humid climates than in cool, dry areas.
transactions, large-scale cryptocurrency          attracted to sites with low latency to end      Consequently, holding other factors equal,
mining requires a massive amount of com-          users and dependable and affordable elec-       developers favor locations with low electric-
puting power.                                     tricity.                                        ity rates and cooler climates. Furthermore,
      This article explores the reasons why             While data centers have historically      because these facilities operate continu-
cities, towns, and counties may wish to           been clustered around major internet access     ously, developers are also looking for sites
define and regulate data centers and cryp-        points, information technology companies,       that are less vulnerable to natural hazards.
tocurrency mining as distinct uses in their       and government employment centers, the                Cryptocurrency miners are also look-
zoning codes and provides a summary of            proliferation of cloud computing and the        ing for locations with cheap electricity and
contemporary approaches. It begins with           internet of things is pushing demand out        low hazard risk; however, dedicated mining
a brief overview of the factors that drive        to network edges. This means more data          facilities are not concerned about proxim-
demand for data centers or cryptocurrency         centers in smaller metropolitan and nonmet-     ity to customers and are less likely to invest
mines in particular locations before examin-      ropolitan areas.                                in backup power. While there seems to be
ing the key planning issues that may merit              Big technology companies are likely to    a widespread consensus that data centers
special attention through zoning and posing       continue looking for sites that can accommo-    are essential to global communications and
a series of questions to guide code drafting.     date new, large single-story structures. But    the global economy, cryptocurrency miners


                                                                                                                   ZONINGPRACTICE 6.22
                                                                                                                   AMERICAN PLANNING ASSOCIATION | page 2


have a more limited “social license” to oper-       They Can Be Noisy                                 than for data centers because an outage
ate. Widespread concerns about the energy           Inside a data center or cryptocurrency mine       wouldn’t negatively affect any other services
use of mines and the limited utility of the         server room, the noise can make it difficult to   or users. Second, cryptocurrency mines gen-
coins they produce has led some countries,          carry on a conversation at a normal volume.       erally aren’t receiving any clients and have
including China, to ban Bitcoin mining. Con-        While most data centers and large crypto-         little incentive to draw attention to them-
sequently, many cryptocurrency miners are           currency mines incorporate construction           selves with fencing or lighting.
relocating to the U.S. (Obando 2022).               and soundproofing techniques that ensure
                                                    this server noise isn’t audible outside of        They Have a Low Employment Density
PLANNING ISSUES                                     the building, air conditioner compressors         Data centers typically have far fewer workers
From the exterior, data centers and crypto-         mounted on the roof or on ground near these       per square foot than professional offices or
currency mining facilities may be physically        facilities can generate noise that carries        light industrial facilities (Tarczynska 2016).
indistinguishable from many commercial              across property lines.                            And cryptocurrency mines generally have
or light industrial uses. However, the                    In some contexts, vegetation or other       even lower employment densities than data
operational characteristics of these facili-        structures may rapidly attenuate this             centers. For some communities, data centers
ties are typically quite distinct from those        sound. In others, the sound may travel over       (and potentially cryptocurrency mines) are
of surrounding land uses. From a planning           long distances. Obviously, the degree to          highly desirable from an economic devel-
perspective, the most noteworthy character-         which these sounds constitute nuisance            opment perspective because they often
istics relate to their electricity and water use,   “noise” depends on surrounding land uses          generate a large property tax surplus that
noise production, enhanced safety and secu-         and ambient noise levels. The problem is          can subsidize more service-intensive land
rity needs, and low employment densities.           typically most acute when data centers or         uses, such as single-family homes. Others,
                                                    mines are near residences.                        however, are reluctant to devote too much
They Use a Lot of Electricity (and Water)                                                             commercial or light industrial space to uses
In 2020, data centers used between 200              They Have Enhanced Safety and Security Needs      that generate few jobs.
and 250 terawatt hours (TWh) of electricity,        Data centers typically aim to run con-
accounting for approximately one percent            tinuously, and any outage or downtime can         ZONING CONSIDERATIONS
of global consumption (IEA 2021). While             threaten business operations. Furthermore,        Any community interested in regulating data
the total consumption has grown steadily            data centers house expensive, highly              centers and cryptocurrency mining through
along with global power demand, this ratio          specialized hardware, and many handle             zoning should consider three key questions:
has held relatively constant over the past          sensitive data. Consequently, most data           1. Do these uses need new use definitions?
20 years as efficiency improvements have            centers incorporate enhanced safety and
                                                                                                      2. Where should these uses be permitted?
proportionally offset increased demand              security features, such as gated access
from data centers. However, this pattern            points, fencing, or bright lighting, to prevent   3. Do these uses need special development
is unlikely to hold as growth in streaming          unauthorized access and to minimize the              or performance standards?
video, online gaming, cloud computing,              likelihood of disruption.
machine learning, virtual reality, and the                Cryptocurrency mines have similar           Do They Need New Use Definitions?
internet of things begins to outstrip effi-         safety and security needs, with two key           New land uses don’t necessarily require new
ciency improvements.                                distinctions. First, miners want to maintain      use definitions in the local zoning code. It
      The figures above exclude cryptocur-          network access, but the stakes are lower          depends, in part, on whether the use fits
rency mining. Bitcoin miners alone used an
estimated additional 60 to 70 TWh in 2020.
According to Cambridge University, if Bitcoin
was country, it’s annual electricity consump-
tion would be slightly higher than that of
Poland or Malaysia (2022).
      Data center and cryptocurrency mining
equipment also generates a tremendous




                                                                                                                                                       ebayink / Flickr (CC BY-NC-ND 2.0)
amount of waste heat, which must be dis-
sipated by fans or absorbed by a cooling
medium to avoid hardware damage and
ensure efficient operations. Many data cen-
ters and cryptocurrency mines use water as
a cooling medium. Water is also necessary
for most forms of electricity production. In
aggregate, a medium-sized data center typi-
cally uses more water each year than two                     The roof of eBay’s Topaz data center in South Jordan, Utah.
18-hole golf courses (Mytton 2021).



                                                                                                                      ZONINGPRACTICE 6.22
                                                                                                                      AMERICAN PLANNING ASSOCIATION | page 3


neatly under a broader use category or is         EXAMPLES OF DEFINED USES
substantially like another defined use. And        Jurisdiction                    Defined Uses
it depends on whether treating the new use
                                                   Alpharetta, GA                  Data center (§1.4.2)
the same as this use category or other simi-
lar use would be likely to generate negative       Anne Arundel County, MD         Data storage center (§18-1-101.(44))
effects on nearby properties or the commu-         Fairfax County, VA              Data center (§9103)
nity as a whole.                                   Frederick County, MD            Critical digital infrastructure facility (§1-19-11.100)
      Many communities have defined data
                                                   Moses Lake, WA                  Cryptocurrency mining; Data center/server farm/cluster
centers (or some closely analogous term) as
                                                                                   (§18.03.040)
a distinct use in their zoning codes. These
                                                   Pitt County, NC                 Data processing facility (large scale) (§15)
definitions typically reference the general
function of the facility and the degree to         Plattsburgh, NY                 Commercial cryptocurrency mining; Server farm; High
which it is occupied by computer systems                                           density load service (LL 6-2018)
and related equipment. For example, Anne           Prince George’s County, MD      Qualified data center (§27-2500)
Arundel County, Maryland, defines data stor-       Prince William County, VA       Data center (§32-100)
age center as “a facility used primarily for
                                                   Somerville, MA                  Data center (§9.8.b)
the storage, management, processing, and
transmission of digital data, which houses         Vernal, UT                      Data center (§16.04.173)
computer or network equipment, systems,            Wenatchee, WA                   Cryptocurrency mining; Data center (§10.08)
servers, appliances, and other associated
components related to digital data storage
and operations” (§18-1-101.(44)).                 commercial areas. Wenatchee, Washington,          to address specific community concerns.
      Comparatively fewer communities have        addresses this issue by permitting data                 Use-specific standards can help mini-
defined cryptocurrency mining as a distinct       centers and cryptocurrency mines by right         mize reliance on discretionary approvals and
use. Many of these definitions focus on the       in multiple pedestrian-oriented commercial        improve the consistency of local decisions.
specialized purpose of the facility, often with   districts, with a simple stipulation that they    Without these standards, local officials may
references to other newly defined terms,          cannot occupy “grade level commercial             be more likely to require all data centers and
such as high density load or server farm,         street frontage” (§10.10.020).                    cryptocurrency mines to obtain a discretion-
that clarify its distinct characteristics. For           A new special-purpose zoning district      ary use permit, and they may be more likely
example, Moses Lake, Washington, specifies        can help steer data centers or cryptocurrency     to adopt wildly varying conditions of approval
that cryptocurrency mining often uses more        mines toward corridors or other subareas          for substantially similar proposals.
than 250 kilowatt-hours per square foot each      that have suitable utility infrastructure.              Communities that have adopted use-
year (§18.03.040).                                When adopted as floating zones, special           specific standards for data centers and
                                                  districts can also provide an extra layer of      cryptocurrency mines often establish building
Where Should They Be Permitted?                   review for large projects that may cover doz-     design and buffering or screening require-
Communities that choose to regulate data          ens or hundreds of acres.                         ments to minimize the visibility or improve
centers or cryptocurrency mines as distinct              Prince William County, Virginia, added     the appearance of these facilities from public
uses may permit these uses either by right        a Data Center Opportunity Zone Overlay Dis-       streets or nearby properties. Other common
or with a discretionary use permit (i.e.,         trict to its zoning code in 2016 (§32-509). The   standards address environmental perfor-
conditional, special, or special exception        county has mapped this overlay to more than       mance, including noise and light pollution,
use permits) in one or more existing base or      70 percent of its industrially zoned land. The    and evidence of electric utility approval.
overlay zoning districts. Alternatively, they     overlay permits data centers and includes
may elect to establish a new special-purpose      design standards for these facilities; however,   POTENTIAL MODEL APPROACHES
base or overlay zoning district for either use.   it does not otherwise modify the existing use     It would be difficult to find a community with
     Many communities permit data centers         permissions for underlying districts.             more experience with data centers than
and cryptocurrency mines either by right                                                            Loudon County, Virginia. And the county’s
or with a discretionary use permit in com-        Do They Need Special Development or               approach to zoning for data centers serves as
mercial and industrial districts. While data      Performance Standards?                            a potential model for other communities with
centers and mines can fit in a wide range of      Communities that decide to regulate data          suitable sites and sufficient infrastructure to
existing commercial or industrial buildings,      centers or cryptocurrency mines as distinct       accommodate data center development. In
purpose-built facilities are often single-story   uses may choose to adopt use-specific             contrast, Missoula County, Montana, was one
structures with large floorplates.                standards that modify or supplement other         of the first local jurisdictions to craft zoning
     Given that they generally have few           relevant universal or district-specific devel-    regulations for cryptocurrency mining opera-
employees and visitors, these uses may            opment or performance standards. This             tions. And its emphasis on mitigating the
not be appropriate in ground-floor street-        approach can help communities target stan-        potential climate impacts represents a differ-
frontage spaces in pedestrian-oriented            dards to the distinct features of these uses      ent type of potential model.


                                                                                                                      ZONINGPRACTICE 6.22
                                                                                                                      AMERICAN PLANNING ASSOCIATION | page 4


Loudon County, Virginia                          U.S. exchange. The county has abundant             districts. New data centers (without vested
Northern Virginia’s Data Center Alley, pri-      (and redundant) fiber optic infrastructure,        rights) must comply with a set of use-specific
marily clustered around Routes 7 and 267         relatively cheap power, and sufficient water.      standards governing façade design, screen-
in Loudon and Fairfax Counties is the larg-      Additionally, it has a high concentration of       ing of mechanical equipment, exterior
est data center market in the world (Fray        skilled technology workers and businesses          lighting, pedestrian and bicycle facilities,
and Koutsaris 2022). Its combined power          that support the data center industry.             and landscaping, buffering, and screening
consumption capacity is more than 1.6 giga-             By the year 2000, there was already         (§5-664).
watts (GW), nearly twice as much as the next     an emerging data center cluster in Loudon                According to David, these standards
largest market. And within Data Center Alley,    County. However, the county did not define         are intended to improve the aesthetics of
Loudon County has the highest concentra-         and regulate data centers as a distinct use        data centers, minimize visibility from nearby
tion of data centers. As of October 2021,        in its zoning code until 2014 (ZOAM 2013-          residential areas, and ensure continuous
data centers occupied more than 25 million       0003). According to Acting Planning & Zoning       sidewalk and trail networks. Overall, they
square feet, with another 4 million square       Director James David, prior to this, the county    represent a light-touch approach that has,
feet in development (LCDED 2022).                defined data centers as commercial offices.        so far, worked well for a county with enor-
      Several important factors have driven             The latest version of the county’s          mous demand for data centers and relatively
demand for data center development in            zoning ordinance permits data centers by           modest competition for space from other
Loudon County. It is home to the Equinix         right in Planned Office Park, Research and         commercial and industrial uses.
internet exchange, one of the largest internet   Development Park, Industrial Park, and                   However, in February 2022, county
access points in the world and a successor to    General Industrial districts and as a special      officials directed staff to research regulatory
Metropolitan Area Exchange, East, the first      exception use in Commercial Light Industry         options to prevent new data centers in the



EXAMPLES OF USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR DATA CENTERS AND CRYPTOCURRENCY MINING
 Jurisdiction                  Use-Specific Standards
 Alpharetta, GA                Requires evidence of compliance with noise standards; specifies exterior lighting fixture design; establishes
                               minimum building height; requires building façade design elements; establishes other fencing, screening, and
                               landscaping requirements to minimize visibility from adjacent roads and properties (§2.7.2.1)
 Anne Arundel County, MD       Establishes minimum lot size and setbacks; prohibits residences on the same lot; establishes limit on outdoor
                               storage (§18-10-119)
 Fairfax County, VA            Requires all equipment to be enclosed within a building; establishes maximum floor area by zoning district
                               (§4102.6.A)
 Frederick County, MD          Establishes criteria for reducing setbacks; specifies building design standards; specifies landscaping,
                               screening, and buffering requirements; clarifies parking, loading, signage, and lighting standards; establishes
                               criteria for private roads; establishes noise and vibration standards (§1-19-8.402)
 Moses Lake, WA                Clarifies review process for business license; prohibits container storage; requires evidence of electrical
                               utility approval; requires evidence of electrical permit and inspection; establishes environmental performance
                               standards, addressing noise, heat, and electric and magnetic fields; limits amount of exposed equipment on
                               facades (§18.74)
 Pitt County, NC               Limits height; requires separation from sensitive uses; requires noise study and compliance with noise
                               standards; requires underground wiring; requires security fencing and vegetative screening; requires evidence
                               of electrical utility approval; clarifies signage standards; requires notification of abandonment (§8(UUUU))
 Plattsburgh, NY               Requires fire suppression and mitigation techniques; limits internal ambient temperature and the direct
                               release of heat on colder days; establishes permissible noise levels (LL 6-2018)
 Prince George’s County, VA    Requires building façade design elements; specifies exterior lighting fixture design; requires screening for
                               security fencing and limits fence height; requires compliance with landscape manual; clarifies applicable off-
                               street parking standard; clarifies signage standards; requires an acoustical study; specifies additional site,
                               locational, and noticing requirements for facilities in rural residential districts (§27-5102(e)(4)(B))
 Somerville, MA                Establishes special review criteria related to aesthetic impacts and employment opportunities (§9.8.b)
 Vernal, UT                    Requires fencing and structural screening for electrical generators; requires noise mitigation plan for facilities
                               near residential zones or existing hotels or motels (§16.20.250)
 Wenatchee, WA                 Clarifies review process for business license; prohibits container storage; requires evidence of electrical utility
                               approval; requires evidence of electrical permit and inspection; clarifies blank wall limitation standards;
                               requires an affidavit verifying operating sound levels (§18.48.310)



                                                                                                                    ZONINGPRACTICE 6.22
                                                                                                                    AMERICAN PLANNING ASSOCIATION | page 5


Route 7 corridor. While data center demand
remains high in this area, the county’s
comprehensive plan designates most of
this corridor as Suburban Mixed Use, which
envisions a compact, pedestrian-friendly
mix of commercial, residential, cultural, and
recreational uses. Furthermore, the existing
electricity network infrastructure is insuf-
ficient to accommodate the existing demand
for new data centers (LCDED 2022).
      The county is working on its first com-
plete overhaul of its zoning code since 1993.

                                                                                                                                                      Google Earth
And it intends to incorporate any new regu-
lations for data centers into the new code,
which officials hope to adopt by the end
of 2022.                                                     The heart of Northern Virginia’s Data Center Alley in Ashburn, Virginia.

Missoula County, Montana
In April 2019, Missoula County, Montana,
adopted an interim zoning resolution that
established a cryptocurrency mining overlay
(Resolution No. 2019-026). The county had
one large cryptocurrency mine already, and
its low electricity rates and cool climate
made it an attractive area for prospective
miners. While a few other jurisdictions had
already defined cryptocurrency mining in
their zoning codes, Missoula County appears
to be the first to explicitly position its zoning
approach as a response to climate change.

                                                                                                                                                      Google Earth
      According to county planner Jennie
Dixon, aicp, local officials originally took an
interest in regulating cryptocurrency mining
as a distinct use after multiple complaints of               The former Bonner sawmill in Missoula County, Montana, was once
noise from cooling fans at an existing Bitcoin               home to the HyperBlock cryptocurrency mine.
mine operating out of a former sawmill in
unincorporated Bonner. Soon, though, the
county expanded its focus to include energy
consumption and electronic waste.                   restricted cryptocurrency mining opera-          electricity comes from hydropower, coal
      Montana law only authorizes interim           tions to industrial districts and required       accounts for much of the remainder.
zoning in the case of an emergency involving        operators to obtain a discretionary use per-           Missoula County’s 2016 Growth Policy
“public health, safety, morals, or general          mit if the mine was adjacent to a residential    plan includes an objective to “reduce the
welfare” (§76-2-206). Dixon says the Inter-         district or within 500 feet of a residential     county’s contribution to climate change”
governmental Panel on Climate Change’s              property boundary. These regulations             (4.1) and lists policies that promote alterna-
2018 Special Report on Global Warming of            also required all mining operations to           tive energy development (4.1.3) and reduce
1.5° C helped justify climate change as a           verify that all electronic waste be handled      energy use and waste generation as imple-
local emergency that warranted interim zon-         by a licensed recycling firm and that all        mentation actions (4.1.6). A day before it
ing to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions            electricity use be offset by new renewable       adopted the interim cryptocurrency mining
(and other potential environmental impacts)         energy production.                               regulations, the county further strengthened
from cryptocurrency mining.                               Caroline Lauer, the county’s Sustain-      its policy rationale by adopting a joint com-
      The interim zoning regulations defined        ability Program Manager, stresses the            mitment with the City of Missoula to achieve
cryptocurrency mining as a distinct use and         importance of this last requirement. If          100 percent clean electricity use by 2030.
created a Cryptocurrency Mining Overlay             cryptocurrency miners purchased existing               County officials extended the interim
Zone, mapped to the entire unincorporated           supplies of renewable energy, it could actu-     zoning for another year in 2020 before adopt-
geographic extent of the county (which              ally displace existing utility customers to      ing the same regulations as a permanent
includes some un-zoned areas). The overlay          dirtier sources. While most of the county’s      zoning amendment in March 2021 (§1.04


                                                                                                                     ZONINGPRACTICE 6.22
                                                                                                                     AMERICAN PLANNING ASSOCIATION | page 6


& §5.05). According to Dixon, the Bonner       the climate impacts of an increased demand       energy-efficient transaction verification
mine ceased operations during the interim      for data storage and processing.                 methods, and several existing cryptocurren-
zoning period, but not because of the                The increased digitalization of life       cies already use these methods. However,
county’s zoning. It declared bankruptcy        virtually guarantees that data centers will      we are still at the very beginning of the cryp-
two days after the “Black Thursday” Bitcoin    continue proliferating in strategic locations    tocurrency story. While this form of currency
crash in March 2020, leaving the tribal-       across the country (Gomez and DeAngelis          currently exists primarily as a speculative
owned independent power producer that          2022). Soon, communities may start seeing a      investment vehicle, this could change rapidly
provided its electricity with a $3.7 million   sharp increase in interest in very small edge    if valuations stabilize and large numbers of
unpaid bill (Rozen 2020).                      data centers that could fit in underutilized     goods and service providers accept crypto-
                                               commercial spaces or even be collocated          currencies for payment.
CONCLUSIONS                                    with other telecommunications infrastruc-              Not every community will see the value
The rapid rise in data center development      ture, such as small cell facilities, in public   in defining data centers or cryptocurrency
has coincided with dramatic decreases in       rights-of-way (Sowry et al. 2018).               mines as distinct uses in their zoning codes.
the costs of producing solar and wind power.         The future of cryptocurrency mining        Nevertheless, doing so can give local juris-
This, in combination with a growing trend      facilities is less certain. Bitcoin and other    dictions a leg up when it comes to signaling
toward clean power commitments among           energy-intensive cryptocurrencies are fac-       preferences to developers and operators
technology companies, has blunted some of      ing social pressure to transition to more        and minimizing or mitigating potential
                                                                                                adverse impacts.



   REFERENCES AND RESOURCES                                                                     ABOUT THE AUTHOR
   Dunbar, Courtney and Robert Bonar.          Mytton, David. 2021. “Data Centre Water
   2021. “Siting Next-Generation Data          Consumption.” NPJ Clean Water, 4(11).            David Morley, aicp, is a research program
   Centers.” Area Development, Q2.             bit.ly/3wjRUaR                                   and QA manager with the American Planning
   bit.ly/390dyJ3                                                                               Association and editor of Zoning Practice.
                                               Obando, Sebastian. 2022.
   Evans-Cowley, Jennifer. 2002. Telecom       “Cryptocurrency Bans Fuel US Data
   Hotels: A Planners Guide. PAS Report        Center Construction.” Construction Dive,
   No. 505. Chicago: American Planning         February 16. bit.ly/3w7aG6t
   Association. bit.ly/39Dezaa
                                                                                                       Cover: iStock.com/gorodenkoff
                                               Rozen, Jacob. 2020. “Poor Business
   Fray, Andrew and Bobby Koutsaris.           Model, Not COVID-19 Behind Hyperblock
   2022. 2022 Global Data Center Market        Early Struggles.” Coingeek, December
                                                                                                VOL. 39, NO. 6
   Comparison. Chicago: Cushman &              23. bit.ly/37uFHYp
                                                                                                The American Planning Association will lead
   Wakefield. cushwk.co/3P8JOdB
                                                                                                the way to equitable, thriving communities by
                                               Tarczynska, Kasia. 2016. Money Lost to           creating unique insights, as well as innovative
   Gomez, Alexsandra and Joseph                the Cloud: How Data Centers Benefit From         and practical approaches that enable the
                                               State and Local Government Subsidies.            planning community to anticipate and
   DeAngelis. 2022. Digitalization and
                                                                                                successfully adapt to the needs of a rapidly
   Implications for Planning. Chicago:         Washington, D.C.: Good Jobs First.               changing world.
   American Planning Association.              bit.ly/398mn3m
                                                                                                Zoning Practice (ISSN 1548–0135) is a
   bit.ly/3KUP1lT                                                                               monthly ­publication of the American Planning
                                               Sowry, David, Jani Dharmesh, Don                 Association. Joel Albizo, fasae, cae, Chief
                                                                                                Executive Officer; Petra Hurtado, phd, Research
   International Energy Agency (IEA). 2021.    Duet, Frank Yan, Harry Smeenk,
                                                                                                Director; David Morley, aicp, Editor.
   “Data Centres and Data Transmission         James Young, Phillip Marangella, and
                                                                                                Subscriptions are available for $95 (U.S.)
   Networks.” Tracking Report, November.       Robert Bunger. 2018. TIA Position
                                                                                                and $120 (foreign). Missing and damaged
   bit.ly/3FsMSwR                              Paper: Edge Data Centers. Arlington,             print issues: Contact APA Customer Service
                                               Virginia: Telecommunications Industry            (312-431-9100) within 90 days of the
                                                                                                publication date.
   Loudon County [Virginia] Department of      Association. bit.ly/3N3U58Y
   Economic Development (LDED). 2022.                                                           ©2022 by the American Planning Association,
                                                                                                205 N. Michigan Ave., Suite 1200, Chicago, IL
   Loudon County Data Center Land Study.       University of Cambridge. 2022.                   60601–5927; planning.org.
   bit.ly/3P7DYt0                              “Cambridge Bitcoin Electricity
                                                                                                All rights reserved. No part of this publication
                                               Consumption Index.” bit.ly/38hj1v1               may be reproduced or utilized in any form or
   Missoula (Montana), County of. 2021.                                                         by any means without permission in writing
   “Cryptocurrency Mining.” bit.ly/3PbSr72                                                      from APA.
                                                                                                Printed on recycled paper, including 50-70%
                                                                                                recycled ﬁber and 10% postconsumer waste.



                                                                                                                 ZONINGPRACTICE 6.22
                                                                                                                 AMERICAN PLANNING ASSOCIATION | page 7


                         Creating Great Communities for All


                         ZONING PRACTICE
                         AMERICAN PLANNING ASSOCIATION

                         205 N. Michigan Ave.
                         Suite 1200
HOW DOES YOUR ZONING
                         Chicago, IL 60601–5927




TREAT DATA CENTERS AND


CRYPTOCURRENCY MINES?

6


OCTOBER 2025 | VOL. 42, NO. 10




    ZONING
  PRACTICE
 Unique Insights | Innovative Approaches | Practical Solutions




   The Physical Footprint
   of Artificial Intelligence




    In this Issue: What Are the Physical Needs of AI? | How Is AI Infrastructure Regu-
    lated (or Not)? | What Should Planners Be Thinking About? | Where Can Planners Learn
    More?


                   The Physical Footprint
                   of Artificial Intelligence
                 By Charlie Nichols, aicp


                 Every time you ask ChatGPT, Gemini, or Claude a question, you are tapping into a
                 sprawling, power-hungry network of machines. Somewhere, a data center’s processors
                 are whirring, fans are spinning, and megawatts of electricity are flowing.


                      Artificial intelligence (AI) may feel vir-         This issue of Zoning Practice explores
                 tual, but its footprint is intensely physical.      the physical effects of AI deployment and
                 Behind every chatbot interaction, predic-           highlights core considerations for local
                 tive algorithm, or autonomous system lies           planning and zoning. It begins with a sum-
                 a vast network of data centers, power               mary of the land use characteristics of the
                 generators, and electricity transmission            system of data centers that host and serve
                 and distribution infrastructure. As vast as it      contemporary AI models before highlight-
                 is now, the demand for computing power              ing noteworthy regulatory approaches and
                 is growing at an exponential rate, and local        areas of opportunity for zoning updates
                 zoning is on the front lines.                       and land use decision-making processes.

Data center
infrastructure
in the United
States, 2025
(Credit: NREL)




                                                          Zoning Practice | American Planning Association | October 2025 2


What Are the Physical Needs of                 demand rather than square footage, it is
AI?                                            possible to translate one into the other.
When we think about artificial intelli-        Deloitte estimates that AI-driven data
gence, we often imagine abstract ideas         centers could require up to 123 gigawatts
or algorithms, software, or maybe a chat       (GW) of capacity in the U.S. by 2035, com-
assistant or a robot. But AI is deeply phys-   pared to roughly 4 GW today (Stansbury
ical. It runs on powerful hardware that        et al. 2025). Real-world projects suggest
lives in large buildings, draws enormous       that every megawatt of IT load requires
amounts of electricity, and requires robust    between 5,000 and 12,000 square feet of
infrastructure to keep it cool and opera-      total building area. Applying that ratio to
tional. These needs are shaping land use       123 GW implies a national buildout of 615
decisions in ways many communities have        million to 1.48 billion square feet of data
never dealt with before.                       center space, equivalent to about 22 to
                                               53 square miles. Land use estimates point
AI Lives in Data Centers                       in a similar direction, with recent proj-
The primary home of AI is the data center.     ects averaging 0.5 to 1.5 acres per MW,
These are large, sometimes windowless,         which would translate to roughly 96 to
buildings filled with servers, networking      288 square miles of U.S. land devoted to
equipment, and backup systems. While           AI-related data center campuses by 2035
some are sleek and high-tech, many look        (Stansbury et al. 2025).
like simple warehouses. But inside, the
technology is anything but simple.
     AI workloads require far more com-
putational power than traditional cloud
computing. That means more servers
packed with graphics processing units
(GPUs), which are optimized for machine
learning tasks. These GPUs are energy-in-
tensive and generate a significant amount
of heat (Shehabi et al. 2024; Casey 2025).
     This is why the design, location,
and infrastructure of data centers have
become such a big deal. For example,
Meta’s Altoona, Iowa, data-center campus
has more than five million square feet of
space and is still growing (Miller 2022).
     Data centers themselves fall into sev-
eral distinct categories. Edge or micro
facilities are the smallest, often modular
container-sized enclosures ranging from
a few hundred to a few thousand square
feet. Enterprise data centers, typically       AI Needs Lots of Electricity                            A proposed 612-
operated by corporations or universities,      Power demand is one of the most crit-                    acre hyperscale
can range from about 5,000 to 50,000           ical limiting factors in scaling AI. The                      data center
square feet, sometimes larger. Colocation      U.S. Department of Energy’s Secretary of                campus in Cedar
                                                                                                           Rapids, Iowa
facilities lease space to multiple ten-        Energy Advisory Board notes that legacy                     (Credit: QTS)
ants and often fall between 50,000 and         hyperscale data centers have typically
600,000 square feet, with many averaging       connected at 20–50 megawatts (MW),
around 150,000 square feet. At the largest     but utilities are now receiving AI-driven
scale are hyperscale data centers, typically   connection requests for single campuses
built by major cloud or AI providers, which    of 300–1,000 MW (2024). To put the
can easily reach hundreds of thousands         low end of that new range in context, a
of square feet per building and exceed         300 MW facility running around the clock
one million square feet across a campus        would consume about 2.6 terawatt-hours
(Zhang 2023).                                  a year—roughly the annual electricity
     While many forecasts focus on power       use of 250,000 U.S. homes (calculated

                                                             Zoning Practice | American Planning Association | October 2025 3


                                                                           with the U.S. EIA average of 10,500 kWh                       for evaporative cooling (Lei et al. 2025;
                                                                           per household). These unprecedented                           Shehabi et al. 2024; Selsky 2022). That’s
                                                                           loads are forcing planners, utilities, and                    raising concerns in water-scarce regions
                                                                           regulators to rethink siting, transmission                    or places where water infrastructure is
                                                                           capacity, and community-impact mitiga-                        already stretched thin.
                                                                           tion.                                                              For example, in The Dalles, Oregon, a
                                                                                This demand is driving data centers                      dispute between Google and the city over
                                                                           to locate near existing transmission infra-                   water use became national news when
                                                                           structure, substations, or power plants.                      the city council approved a water agree-
                                                                           In some cases, new substations or trans-                      ment to support Google’s data center
                                                                           mission lines are being proposed just to                      expansion, despite local concerns about
                                                                           support AI infrastructure. Local planners                     long-term water availability (Selsky 2022).
                                                                           are being asked to approve not just build-                         Water and cooling infrastructure also
                                                                           ings, but energy projects with regional                       raise siting questions. Should data centers
                                                                           impacts.                                                      be allowed in areas with limited water sup-
                                                                                There is also growing concern about                      ply? What happens when a tech company
                                                                           the climate impacts of AI. Researchers                        becomes one of the largest users of
                                                                           estimate that the cumulative carbon emis-                     municipal water? These questions are
                                                                           sions from AI models could reach 3.66                         starting to reach planning commissions
                                                                           to 8.72 million tons in the U.S. alone—the                    and city councils.
                                                                           equivalent of driving an average gaso-
                                                                           line-powered car nine to 22 billion miles                     AI Needs Fiber and Connectivity
                                                                           (Ding et al. 2025; USEPA 2024). This has                      Finally, AI infrastructure depends on high-
                                                                           led to pressure for data centers to run on                    speed fiberoptic connections. Training
                                                                           renewable energy, adding another layer                        models and delivering AI services both
                                                                           of land use complexity as solar or wind                       require fast, reliable data transmission.
                                                                           farms are proposed nearby or colocated                        This can drive the need for new fiber lines,
                                                                           together with data centers.                                   telecom infrastructure, or even small-cell
                                                                                                                                         installations in rural or suburban areas
                                Top-five U.S.                              AI Needs Water and Cooling                                    (RVA LLC 2025; Walker 2024).
                                Google data
                                                                           All that power generates heat, and that                            It’s not just big cities seeing these
                                centers by annual
                                water withdrawals,
                                                                           heat has to go somewhere. Most data                           investments. Some rural areas are gaining
                                2024 (Credit:                              centers use a combination of air- and                         interest from AI developers because they
                                Google’s 2025                              watercooling systems. Some of the largest                     offer space, lower land costs, and coop-
                                Environmental                              AIfocused facilities can consume hundreds                     erative local governments—provided they
                                Report)                                    of thousands of gallons of water per day                      can offer fiber access and a willing utility
                                                                                                                                         partner.

                                                1,600
                                                        1,410.3 ≈ 9.4
                                                                                                                                         How Is AI Infrastructure




Annual Water Withdrawal (Millions of Gallons)
                                                        Golf Courses
                                                1,400                                                                                    Regulated (or Not)?
                                                                        1,108.3 ≈ 7.4
                                                                                                                                         If your city or county does not already
                                                1,200                   Golf Courses                                                     have a data center, just wait. The odds
                                                                                                                                         are increasing that a tech company, or the
                                                1,000                                    853.8 ≈ 5.7
                                                                                        Golf Courses                                     utility that serves them, will soon come
                                                 800                                                                                     knocking. Yet most local governments
                                                                                                        532.3 ≈ 3.5                      are not fully prepared to regulate AI infra-
                                                 600                                                   Golf Courses    461.1 ≈ 3.1       structure. In many places, the regulatory
                                                                                                                      Golf Courses
                                                                                                                                         framework is either nonexistent or built for
                                                 400                                                                                     a different era of technology.
                                                 200
                                                                                                                                         Zoning Codes Rarely Mention AI
                                                   0                                                                                     or Data Centers
                                                        Council Bluffs, Mayes County,  Berkeley   Papillion, NE The Dalles, OR           Many zoning codes still make no explicit
                                                             IA             OK        County, SC
                                                                                                                                         reference to “artificial intelligence” or even
                                                                             Google Data Center Locations
                                                                                                                                         to “data centers.” Where definitions are

                                                                                                                              Zoning Practice | American Planning Association | October 2025 4


absent, planners may choose to slot these      proactive definitions, locational criteria,
facilities into broad buckets such as ware-    and impact standards, local governments
housing, light-industrial, or public-utility   risk conceding critical decisions about
uses, even though the buildings may be         land, water, and grid capacity to devel-
packed wall-to-wall with servers instead of    opers’ timetables rather than community
pallets.                                       goals.
      Yet these facilities behave very dif-
ferently from the categories they’re often
shoehorned into, and there are many
reasons why local governments may want
to specifically define data center uses
(Morley 2022). Their continuous operation
demands megawatts of electricity and,
in many climates, hundreds of thousands
of gallons of cooling water per day; the
equipment generates heat and noise; and
the employment footprint is minimal. When
such impacts are overlooked, commu-
nities can be blindsided—as happened
in Prince William County, Virginia, where
approval of a massive datacenter corridor
sparked backlash over noise, power deliv-      Many AI Facilities Are Allowed by                        Data Center
ery, and land use compatibility.               Right                                                    Alley in Loudoun
      Recognizing this mismatch, an            In areas that do allow data centers                      County, Virginia
                                                                                                        (Credit: Gerville/
increasing number of jurisdictions have        by right, local officials often have little
                                                                                                        iStock/Getty
begun to write data-center-specific rules.     authority to influence their design or sit-              Images Plus)
Loudoun County, Virginia, imposes              ing (Morley 2022). Developers may be able
façade, screening, lighting, and pedes-        to build massive facilities with only admin-
trian-connectivity standards on by-right       istrative approval. If the project complies
data centers to blunt visual impacts while     with the basic zoning and building code, it
leveraging their tax base (§4.06.02).          can move forward, even if it brings signifi-
Prince William County uses a Data Center       cant impacts to neighboring properties or
Opportunity Zone Overlay to funnel proj-       the local infrastructure system.
ects to infrastructure-served parcels and           This hands‑off, by‑right approach can
require design review (§32-509). Missoula      leave neighbors in the dark when a cam-
County, Montana, offers a different model.     pus that draws 100 MW or more of power
The county’s ordinance, crafted for crypto-    is permitted the same way a warehouse
currency mines, confines those operations      is. Such facilities may also require hun-
to industrial zones and requires them to       dreds of thousands of gallons of cooling
offset 100 percent of their electricity use    water per day and generate continuous
with renewable energy (§5.10). Because         low‑frequency noise from chillers, pumps,
cryptocurrency mines and large‑scale           and backup generators (Van Geet and
data centers both run continuously, draw       Sickinger 2024). Without a public‑hearing
high‑density power, and employ few             trigger, residents may not learn what is
on‑site workers, planners can adapt the        coming until the bulldozers roll.
same toolkit—clear land use definitions,            That said, relying on discretion-
targeted overlay districts, and energy‑fo-     ary use permits alone is not a perfect
cused performance standards—to data            fix. Case‑by‑case approvals can introduce
centers when communities want compa-           uncertainty, increase timelines, and dupli-
rable safeguards.                              cate reviews that utilities already perform
      Looking ahead, AI training clusters      when they decide whether to supply the
dwarf the loads discussed in 2022, with        necessary electricity and water. A more
utilities now fielding single-campus inter-    balanced strategy is to embed objective,
connection requests of 300 MW and              use‑specific standards (e.g., caps on
more. The zoning fundamentals remain the       sound at the property line, requirements
same, but the stakes are higher. Without       for renewable‑energy procurement, and

                                                             Zoning Practice | American Planning Association | October 2025 5


                      water‑recycling targets) directly into the        cumulative effects such as substations,
                      zoning code. Guidance from the Urban              access roads, or groundwater withdrawals.
                      Land Institute shows how clear definitions,            Battery-energy-storage systems
                      overlay districts, and measurable perfor-         (BESS) create another layer of complexity,
                      mance thresholds can give developers              and a clear trend of data centers colocat-
                      predictability while still protecting commu-      ing BESS on-site is accelerating
                      nity interests (Miet 2024). By pairing these      (ZincFive 2024). Some states exempt utili-
                      standards with early coordination among           ty-scale BESS that are colocated with
                      planners, utilities, and residents, commu-        generation assets, while others treat them
                      nities can address local impacts without          as industrial equipment needing only an
                      resorting to duplicative or open‑ended dis-       electrical permit. Where local authority
                      cretionary reviews.                               does apply, recent guidance recommends
                                                                        clear definitions, district regulations, and
                      Infrastructure Approvals May Be                   objective safety standards, thermal-run-
                      Handled Separately                                away monitoring, minimum setbacks, and
                      Adding to the complexity, the infrastructure      emergency-response plans to avoid
                      needed to support AI such as transmis-            ad-hoc hearings (Ross and Vadali 2024).
                      sion lines, substations, power generation              Developers are now bundling data
                      facilities, battery energy storage. and fiber     centers with on-site renewables and stor-
                      installations is often regulated under dif-       age in microgrid “energy parks,” aiming
                      ferent frameworks. Utilities may have their       to bypass long interconnection queues
                      own review and siting authority at the state      and control energy costs. Recent proj-
                      level, which can bypass local land use            ects in Texas and Virginia pair hundreds
                      processes entirely.                               of megawatts of generation and storage
                           Large solar or wind projects, for exam-      with adjacent server halls, creating hybrid
                      ple, are pre-empted from local control in         campuses that straddle state energy-facil-
                      more than 20 U.S. states, leaving local           ity review, regional transmission rules, and
                      governments to vet the data-center build-         local zoning (DiGangi 2025). To keep pace,
                      ing, while the power generation facility that     planners can identify jurisdictional triggers
                      feeds it is debated elsewhere (Gomez and          early, embed measurable performance
                      Morley 2023; Morley 2025). Fragmented             standards (e.g., noise caps, screening, or
                      approvals make it hard for planners to tally      renewable-energy sourcing) in their codes,

  The Eland Solar-
      plus-Storage
    Center in Kern
 County, California
(Credit: The Desert
Photo/iStock/Getty
      Images Plus)




                                                             Zoning Practice | American Planning Association | October 2025 6


and coordinate with utilities so local and       Table 1. Examples of Recent Local Regulatory Updates for Data Centers
state reviews proceed on aligned time-
lines.                                                                    How it regulates data-center
                                                Jurisdiction
                                                                          impacts
Environmental Review Is
Inconsistent                                   Atlanta, GA                Requires a special-use permit
Environmental review of AI infrastructure                                 for every new data center and
also varies widely. In states that require                                empowers the city council to
environmental impact statements (EIS),                                    review water-consumption, energy-
large-scale data centers may undergo                                      efficiency, and noise-mitigation plans
detailed scrutiny. But in states without EIS                              (Ordinance 25O1063, 2024)
laws, or for smaller projects, there may be    Brainerd, MN               Prohibits data centers unless the
minimal analysis of water use, energy con-                                planning commission approves
sumption, or greenhouse gas emissions                                     a conditional-use permit that
(Morris 2024).                                                            addresses cooling noise and utility
     Even where review is required, the                                   demand (Ordinance No. 1581, 2025)
focus may be on the building itself, rather    Chandler, AZ               Adds a data center use category;
than the full ecosystem of impacts. For                                   limits the use to Planned Area
example, if a local code does not require                                 Development zones and sets size,
review of off-site power infrastructure or                                generator-testing and water-recycling
supporting utility upgrades, critical issues                              standards (Ordinance No. 5033, 2022)
related to energy delivery, environmental
                                               Tempe, AZ                  Requires a water use plan and
impact, or long-term capacity may fall
                                                                          enhanced setbacks next to homes
through the cracks.
                                                                          and schools, and “innovation hubs”
                                                                          (Ordinance No. O2025-23, 2025)
Local Governments Are Starting
to Catch Up                                    Phoenix, AZ                Defines “data center,” restricts
Local governments are no longer standing                                  locations, and introduces design
still while hyperscale campuses spring                                    standards such as façade articulation
up at the edge of town. Since 2023, a                                     and noise studies (Ordinance
wave of city councils, county boards, and                                 G-7396, 2025)
planning commissions have begun mov-           Sugar Grove, IL            Creates a dedicated district with
ing data centers out of catch‑all industrial                              height limits, façade screening, and
categories and into their own, better‑de-                                 a master-utility-plan requirement
fined regulatory boxes. Some jurisdictions,                               (Ordinance No. 2022-1206B, 2022)
such as Atlanta, now require special‑use       Frederick County,          Establishes an overlay zone that
permits tied to energy, water, and noise       MD                         limits where data centers can be built
studies (Ordinance 25-O-1063). Others,                                    (Bill No. 25-05, 2025)
such as Cedar Rapids, Iowa, leverage
community‑benefit agreements to ensure
local reinvestment when a project wins
approval (Pratt 2025).                         What Should Planners Be
      Approaches vary, but the trend is        Thinking About?
unmistakable: Communities are adopting         Artificial intelligence may sound futuristic,
objective, use‑specific standards rather       but the decisions that shape its physical
than relying solely on ad‑hoc discretionary    footprint are being made today. Local
permits. Some ordinances steer projects        governments that wait too long to prepare
into infrastructure‑served corridors, others   may find themselves reacting to projects
set caps on sound and water use, and a         rather than guiding them. So what should
growing number link approvals to renew-        planners be thinking about now?
able energy procurement or on‑site
battery storage. Table 1 highlights seven      Think About Scale
recent examples illustrating the breadth of    AI infrastructure often hides in plain sight
new zoning language, overlay districts,        until its true footprint emerges. What looks
and design guidelines that together show       like a single “warehouse” can blossom
local governments are indeed catching up.      into a portfolio buildout—multiple server

                                                              Zoning Practice | American Planning Association | October 2025 7


          halls, two substations, a battery yard, and        data-center approvals directly to com-
          a 30-inch water main, all staged over a            munity climate goals. Embedding such
          decade (USDOE SEAB 2024). To avoid                 benchmarks in comprehensive plans or
          approving these megaprojects one slice at          codes gives planners clear decision crite-
          a time, some jurisdictions now demand a            ria and ensures that new AI infrastructure
          phased master plan up front. For example,          advances, rather than conflicts with, local
          Loudoun County, Virginia, requires every           resiliency objectives.
          data-center rezoning to include a “Data                 Plans can also weave data-center
          Center Development Plan” showing the full          growth into broadband and workforce
          buildout of power feeds, cooling infrastruc-       strategies. The U.S. Department of Ener-
          ture, and utility corridors before the first       gy’s 2024 report on AI infrastructure
          site plan is approved (2025).                      recommends that local governments coor-
                Regional utilities are following suit by     dinate land-use designations with state
          running scenario-based load models to              broadband-expansion maps so that fiber
          test whether transmission and groundwa-            corridors serving data centers double as
          ter supplies can keep up. A 2024 white             backbone routes for underserved neigh-
          paper by Energy + Environmental Eco-               borhoods (USDOE SEAB 2024). Aligning
          nomics describes how such models                   these layers up front helps planners
          informed Portland (Oregon) General                 negotiate public-benefit clauses—such as
          Electric’s latest integrated-resource plan         dark-fiber setasides or training programs,
          and helped local planners identify future          rather than scrambling for concessions
          right-of-way corridors for two new 230-kV          late in the process.
          lines (Riu et al. 2024). By asking for phased           Updating your plan first and then
          utility exhibits and participating in utility      adopting measurable standards that flow
          load-growth scenarios, planners can make           from it gives applicants clarity, while ensur-
          sure each new server hall fits into a sys-         ing projects advance the community’s
          tem-wide picture rather than becoming an           long-term vision.
          isolated surprise.
                                                             Think About Infrastructure
                                                             Capacity
                                                             AI campuses can overwhelm local utilities
Many comprehensive plans still                               faster than many other land uses. Virgin-
treat “technology infrastructure”                            ia’s Joint Legislative Audit and Review
                                                             Commission estimates that data centers
as an afterthought, yet data                                 will require 11 gigawatts (GW) of new elec-
center proposals are now shaping                             tric generation and transmission in that
decisions on land supply, energy                             state alone by 2035, roughly one-third of
policy, water allocation, and                                Dominion Energy’s entire current system
                                                             (VJLARC 2024). National modeling by
broadband.                                                   Energy + Environmental Economics shows
                                                             a similar surge, with some balancingareas
                                                             seeing load grow 25 percent in a single
                                                             decade under an “AI-high” scenario (Riu et
          Think About Alignment With Your                    al. 2024).
          Plans                                                   Water systems face parallel stress. At
          Many comprehensive plans still treat               Google’s complex in The Dalles, Oregon,
          “technology infrastructure” as an after-           public records show cooling demand
          thought, yet data-center proposals are             could top one-quarter of the city’s cur-
          now shaping decisions on land sup-                 rent supply, prompting a 2023 agreement
          ply, energy policy, water allocation, and          that pauses future phases unless new
          broadband. Start by inventorying where             wells come online (Selsky 2022). Quincy,
          AI-related facilities touch existing plan          Washington, responded to similar pres-
          elements—utilities, environmental steward-         sures by creating a special water rate
          ship, economic development—and flag the            class and meter fee for data centers to
          gaps.                                              fund infrastructure upgrades (2025). These
               One emerging best practice is to link         examples point to tools planners can

                                                  Zoning Practice | American Planning Association | October 2025 8


                                                                                                        The Three Mile
                                                                                                        Island nuclear
                                                                                                        power plant
                                                                                                        in Middleton,
                                                                                                        Pennsylvania,
                                                                                                        which is coming
                                                                                                        back online to
                                                                                                        power Microsoft
                                                                                                        data centers
                                                                                                        (Credit: gsheldon/
                                                                                                        iStock Editorial/
                                                                                                        Getty Images Plus)




adopt: cumulative-demand studies               if managed deliberately. Developers in
embedded in utility master plans, tiered       Texas and Virginia now pair multiple
rate structures that recover capital costs,    server halls with a shared microgrid that
and permit conditions that link new con-       combines on-site solar, wind, and battery
struction to confirmed water-capacity          storage—an “energy-park” model that
projects.                                      eases interconnection delays and helps
    Electric and water systems are only        regions meet renewable-energy goals
part of the picture. Broadband providers       (DiGangi 2025). By mapping preferred
may need additional conduit banks, and         corridors for both data centers and their
public works departments often discover        supporting infrastructure, planners can
that construction traffic surpasses road-      steer growth to areas where capacity,
design volumes. Objective, use-specific        compatibility, and community returns align.
standards, such as requiring a utilityinfra-
structure plan that maps ultimate              Think About Equity and
substations, mains, and fiber routes, plus     Community Benefits
haul-route and pavement-repair agree-          Data-center projects promise major capital
ments, give planners leverage without          investment but generate few long-term
duplicating state or utility reviews.          jobs and can offload noise, truck traffic,
                                               and resource use onto nearby neighbor-
Think About Cumulative Impacts                 hoods. Additionally, new cost analyses
A single 30 MW data center can feel            show that ordinary ratepayers are already
benign, yet clusters of 10 or more along       footing most of the bill for AI’s voracious
one corridor may push peak electric            appetite for electricity.
load past a gigawatt, double truck traffic         Monitoring Analytics, the independent
during construction, and raise ambient         market monitor for PJM Interconnection,
sound by up to 10 dBA at nearby homes          the largest regional transmission organi-
(VJLARC 2024). Project-by-project review       zation in the U.S., calculated that between
often misses these system-level effects, so    2024 and 2025 data-center electricity
several jurisdictions now require applicants   demand added about $25 to the typical
to look beyond their parcel lines.             household’s monthly bill (Biryukov 2025).
     Clustering can also amplify benefits      PJM now projects that AI and data-center

                                                             Zoning Practice | American Planning Association | October 2025 9


                    demand will double the region’s energy            catalyst for broader community gain rather
                    use by 2033, whereas growth would have            than an enclave of private benefit.
                    been only 15 percent by 2040 without new
                    campuses (JLARC 2024).
                         In response to this and other similar        Where Can Planners Learn
                    projections of effects on ratepayers, law-        More?
                    makers in New Jersey (AB 5466), Oregon            As artificial intelligence infrastructure
                    (HB 3546), and other states have intro-           expands, planners have a growing need to
                    duced bills or tariffs to place data centers      stay informed about what these facilities
                    in a separate rate class or require them to       are, how they function, and how to plan for
                    “bring their own clean power,” so every-          them thoughtfully. The good news is that
                    day customers are not forced to subsidize         several helpful resources already exist, and
                    the electricity needs of trillion-dollar tech     more are emerging every year.
                    companies (Levy 2025). More commu-
                    nities are also moving to tie approvals to        Follow the Energy
                    arrangements that deliver measurable              Many AI-related land use challenges stem
                    local benefits.                                   from energy demand. That means energy
                         For example, Cedar Rapids, Iowa,             planning organizations are a good place
                    required QTS to sign a community                  to start. Resources from the U.S. Depart-
                    benefits agreement (CBA) that will                ment of Energy, National Renewable
                    return about $18 million over 20 years for        Energy Laboratory, and Lawrence Berke-
                    workforce training, broadband expan-              ley National Laboratory offer insights into
                    sion, and green-infrastructure projects           data center energy use, grid impacts, and
                    (Pratt 2025). Legal guidance stresses clear       cooling technologies (Shehabi et al. 2024;
                    milestones, third-party verification, and         USDOE SEAB 2024; Van Geet and Sick-
                    enforcement clauses to keep such agree-           inger 2024).
                    ments credible (Eisenson 2023).                       State and regional energy offices are
                         Meanwhile, Quincy, Washington, cre-          also useful partners. They can help plan-
                    ated a special water rate class for data          ners understand energy trends, forecasted
                    centers in 2024, adding higher volumetric         demand, and opportunities to align AI-re-
A North Dakota      charges and meter fees earmarked for              lated development with state energy goals.
data center using   new wells and main upgrades. Targeted
nonconductive       surcharges turn one user’s high demand            Watch the Water
fluid to cool
                    into system-wide resilience.                      Water use is another key issue, especially
servers rather
than air or              By weaving CBAs and host-com-                in places facing drought or groundwater
water cooling       munity fees into zoning approvals or              depletion. Reports from the U.S. Environ-
systems (Credit:    development agreements, planners can              mental Protection Agency, as well as local
halbergman/E+)      ensure that AI infrastructure acts as a           water utilities and watershed management
                                                                      agencies, can help assess water-related
                                                                      impacts of AI infrastructure.
                                                                           Planners can also look to academic
                                                                      and journalistic research on water use in
                                                                      cooling systems, which varies significantly
                                                                      based on the type of cooling and climate
                                                                      zone (Berreby 2024).

                                                                      Track Technology and Land Use
                                                                      Trends
                                                                      For a broad view of how technology
                                                                      affects land use, the Lincoln Institute of
                                                                      Land Policy and the Urban Land Institute
                                                                      have both published helpful materials.
                                                                      These organizations explore how emerg-
                                                                      ing technologies from AI to autonomous
                                                                      vehicles are reshaping cities, infrastruc-
                                                                      ture, and land markets.

                                                          Zoning Practice | American Planning Association | October 2025 10


     Local case studies can also be              Center Campuses in This Iowa City. Here’s                About the
instructive. Some jurisdictions have started     What Wisconsin Can Expect.” Wisconsin Public             Author
sharing lessons learned from planning            Radio, May 15.
for large-scale data centers or tech cam-
puses. For example, Loudoun (2024; 2025)         DiGangi, Diana. 2025. “Microgrid ‘Energy
and Fairfax (2024) Counties in Virginia offer    Parks’ Could Ease Strain from Rising Power
planning documents and staff reports that        Demand, Report Says.” Utility Dive, July 23.
shed light on real-world challenges and
solutions.                                       Ding, Zhaohao, Jianxiao Wang, Yiyang Song,
                                                 Xiaokang Zheng, Guannan He, Xiupeng
Build Cross-Sector Relationships                 Chen, Xiupeng Chen, Tiance Zhang, Wei-Jen
Planning for AI infrastructure requires col-     Lee, and Jie Song. 2025. “Tracking the Carbon            Charlie Nichols,
laboration. It touches on land use, utilities,   Footprint of Global Generative Artificial Intelli-       aicp, is the Director
economic development, and environmen-            gence.” The Innovation 6(5): 100866.                     of Planning and
tal protection. Building relationships with                                                               Development
energy providers, water utilities, economic      Eisenson, Matthew. 2023. “Experts Identify               for Linn County,
development groups, and regional plan-           Best Practices for Negotiating and Drafting              Iowa. He leads
ning agencies can help planners spot             Community Benefits Agreements.” Climate                  a 15-person
opportunities and anticipate challenges.         Law, September 27.                                       department
     Conferences like the American Plan-                                                                  and has written
ning Association’s National Planning             Fairfax (Virginia) Department of Planning Devel-         pioneering zoning
Conference, Grid Forward, or Smart Cities        opment, County of. 2024. Data Centers Report             ordinances for
Connect often include sessions on tech-          and Recommendations.                                     utility-scale solar,
nology infrastructure. These events are a                                                                 nuclear energy,
great way to hear from peers and industry        Gomez, Alexsandra, and David Morley. 2023.               and hyperscale
experts.                                         Solar@Scale: A Local Government Guidebook                data centers.
     AI infrastructure is no longer a far-       for Improving Large-Scale Solar Development              Nichols received
off idea; it’s already shaping land use          Outcomes. Chicago: American Planning Associ-             his master’s
decisions in communities across the              ation; Washington, DC: International City/County         degree in urban
country. For planners, this presents both        Management Association.                                  and regional
challenges and opportunities. By under-                                                                   planning from
standing what AI infrastructure is, what it      Lei, Nuoa, Jun Lu, Arman Shehabi, and                    the University
requires, and how it fits into broader plan-     Eric Masanet. 2025. The Water Use of Data                of Iowa and has
ning goals, local governments can prepare        Center Workloads: A Review and Assessment                been working
for development that is sustainable, equi-       of Key Determinants. Berkeley, CA: Lawrence              in the field of
table, and forward-looking.                      Berkeley National Laboratory.                            planning for over
     As with many emerging trends, the                                                                    10 years. Outside
best path forward is to stay curious, build      Levy, Marc. 2025. “As Electric Bills Rise, Evidence      of work, he enjoys
partnerships, and think holistically. AI may     Mounts That Data Centers Share Blare. States             tending to his
be powered by algorithms, but the future it      Feel Pressure to Act.” Associated Press, August 8.       backyard chickens
creates will depend on human decisions,                                                                   and working on
including the choices planners make              Loudoun (Virginia), County of. 2024. “Data Cen-          home renovation
today.                                           ter Growth and Energy Constraints.” Board of             projects with his
                                                 Supervisors Transportation and Land Use Com-             wife and three
                                                 mittee Information Item, June 20.                        children.
References and Resources
                                                 Loudoun (Virginia), County of. 2025. Data Center
Berreby, David. 2024. “As Use of AI Soars, So    Standards & Locations.
Does the Energy and Water It Requires.” Yale
Environment 360, February 6.                     Miet, Hannah. 2024. “Local Guidelines for Data
                                                 Center Development.” Washington, D.C.: Urban
Biryukov, Nikita. 2025. “Power Companies Warn    Land Institute.
Lawmakers About Their Plans to Tackle Rising
Bills.” New Jersey Monitor, April 25.            Miller, Rich. 2022. “The New MegaCampuses:
                                                 The World’s Largest Data Center Projects.”
Casey, Evan. 2025. “Microsoft Built Five Data    Data Center Frontier, November 1.

                                                                 Zoning Practice | American Planning Association | October 2025 11


Morley, David. 2022. “Zoning for Data Centers and Crypto-          U.S. Energy Information Administration. 2024. Use of Energy
currency Mining.” Zoning Practice, June. American Planning         Explained: Electricity Use in Homes.
Association.
                                                                   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA). 2024. Green-
Morley, David. 2025. “Wait, Who Approves Large-Scale Solar         house Gas Equivalencies Calculator.
Siting?” APA Blog, March 3.
                                                                   Virginia Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission
Morris, Jackson. 2024. “Data Centers Gobbling Up Existing          (VJLARC). 2024. Virginia Data Center Study: Electric Infra-
Nukes Threatens Grid Decarb Goals.” National Resources             structure and Customer Rate Impacts.
Defense Council Expert Blog, July 11.
                                                                   Van Geet, Otto, and David Sickinger. 2024. Best Practices for
Pratt, Richard. 2025. “Cedar Rapids Council Approves Devel-        Energy-Efficient Data Center Design. Washington, D.C.: U.S.
opment Agreement for QTS Data Center Project.” Corridor            Department of Energy Federal Energy Management Program.
Business Journal, January 30.
                                                                   Walker, Willy. 2024. “The Future of Real Estate Is Digital: How
Prince William (Virginia) Planning Office, County of. 2022.        Data Centers and 5G Are Shaping the Next Generation of
DPA2021-0020: Data Center Opportunity Zone Overlay Dis-            Infrastructure.” Walker & Dunlop Market Trends, October 30.
trict Comprehensive Review.
                                                                   Zhang, Mary. 2023. “Types of Data Centers: Enterprise,
Quincy (Washington), City of. 2025. Rate Resolution 25-709.        Colocation, Hyperscale.” Dgtl Infra, November 26.

Riu, Isabelle, Dieter Smiley, Stephen Bessasparis, and Kushal      ZincFive. 2024. “Data Center Energy Storage Industry
Patel. 2024. Load Growth Is Here to Stay, But Are Data Cen-        Insights Report 2024.”
ters? San Francisco: Energy + Environmental Economics.

Ross, Brian, and Monika Vadali. 2024. “Battery Energy Stor-
age Systems.” Zoning Practice, March.

RVA LLC. 2025. “The Underappreciated Need to Enable AI
and Data Center Growth.” Washington, DC: Fiber Broadband
Association.

Selsky, Andrew. 2022. “Oregon City Drops Fight to Keep
Google Water Use Private.” Associated Press, December 15.

Shehabi, Arman, Sarah J. Smith, Alex Hubbard, Alex Newkirk,
Nuoa Lei, Md Abu Bakar Siddik, Billie Holecek, Jonathan
Koomey, Eric Masanet, and Dale Sartor. 2024. 2024 United
States Data Center Energy Usage Report. Berkeley, CA:
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.

Stansbury, Martin, Kelly Marchese, Kate Hardin, and Carolyn
Amon. 2025. “Can U.S. infrastructure Keep Up With the AI
economy?” Deloitte Insights, June 24.

U.S. Department of Energy, Secretary of Energy Advisory Board
(USDOE SEAB). 2024. “Recommendations on Powering Arti-
ficial Intelligence and Data Center Infrastructure.”



                                                 ZONING PRACTICE OCTOBER 2025 | VOL. 42, NO. 10. Zoning Practice (ISSN 1548–
                                                 0135) is a monthly publication of the American Planning Association. Joel Albizo, fasae, cae,
                                                 Chief Executive Officer; Petra Hurtado, phd, Chief Foresight and Knowledge Officer;
                                                 David Morley, aicp, Editor. Subscriptions are available for $65 (individuals) and $120
American Planning Association                    (organizations). ©2025 by the American Planning Association, 200 E. Randolph St., Suite 6900,
                                                 Chicago, IL 60601–6909; planning.org. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be
Creating Great Communities for All               reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means without permission in writing from APA.


                                                                      Zoning Practice | American Planning Association | October 2025 12


                                            CITY OF OTSEGO
                                          COUNTY OF WRIGHT
                                         STATE OF MINNESOTA

                                        ORDINANCE NO: 2026-11

INTERIM ORDINANCE IMPOSING A MORATORIUM AND AUTHORIZING STUDY OF OFFICIAL CONTROLS
FOR DATA CENTERS.

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF OTSEGO DOES HEREBY ORDAIN:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this Interim Ordinance is to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the citizens of the City of Otsego (“City”) by preserving the status quo while the City undertakes a
planning process to study Data Center land uses, as defined herein, during the term of this Interim
Ordinance, and to consider possible adoption or amendments of the Zoning Ordinance during the term of
this Interim Ordinance.

Section 2. Definition. The following term shall have the following meaning when used in this Interim
Ordinance:

       Data center: A facility used primarily for the storage, management, processing, and
       transmission of digital data that houses computer or network equipment, systems,
       services, appliances, and other associated components related to digital data storage and
       operations, together with its accessory and appurtenant facilities. A Data Center may also
       include offices, air handlers, electric power generators, water cooling systems, water
       storage facilities, utility substations, and other associated infrastructure necessary to
       support sustained operations at the facility.

Section 3. Findings. The City Council hereby finds and determines that:

A.     Due to the evolution of new technologies, including artificial intelligence, cloud-based computing,
       and other digital infrastructure and services, cities within Minnesota have seen a rapid increase
       in the development and operation of Data Centers;

B.     The City is a governing body in accordance with the Municipal Planning Act, Minnesota Statutes,
       Chapter 462 (“Act”), and it has previously exercised its authority pursuant to the Act to adopt the
       Otsego Zoning Ordinance, codified as Title 11 of the Otsego City Code;

C.     Data Centers are allowed as a permitted use within the B-4, Business Office District; I-1, Limited
       Industrial District; and I-2, General Industrial District, established by the Otsego Zoning Ordinance;

D.     Permitted uses within the B-4 District, I-1 District, and I-2 District require an application for Site
       and Building Plan Review in accordance with Section 11-9-2 of the Zoning Ordinance;

E.     The City has not previously and is not currently in receipt of an application for Site and Building
       Plan Review for development of a Data Center within the City;


                                                     1


F.      The City has not previously studied Data Centers as a potential land use;

G.      The impacts that Data Centers may have within the City to public health, safety, and welfare,
        including, but not limited to, the natural environment, land use compatibility, and City service
        capacity and infrastructure, are not fully known or understood at this time;

H.      The Memorandum dated 2 July 2026 prepared by the City Planner, The Planning Company LLC, is
        incorporated herein;

I.      The Planning Commission considered Data Centers at a special meeting on 6 July 2026 and,
        following discussion, voted 7-0 to recommend that the City Council adopt an Interim Ordinance
        prohibiting development of Data Centers within the City to allow a land use study of potential
        zoning regulations and other official controls to be undertaken;

J.      The City Council, in considering the recommendation of the Planning Commission and other
        evidence received, has determined that the Zoning Ordinance may be inadequate to regulate Data
        Centers due to the changing nature of such uses, including with respect to appropriate locations
        within the City, the conditions under which Data Centers may be allowed, appropriate zoning
        districts, use performance standards, compatibility with existing and planned land uses, and
        potential impacts to City service capacity and infrastructure;

K.      Minnesota Statutes, Section 462.355, Subdivision 4 authorizes the City to adopt an Interim
        Ordinance to regulate, restrict, or prohibit any use, development, or subdivision within the City
        to protect the planning process and the health, safety, and welfare of the City for the purpose of
        considering adoption or amendment of official controls defined in Minnesota Statutes, Section
        462.352, Subdivision 15;

L.      It is in the best interest of the City to adopt an Interim Ordinance prohibiting development of Data
        Centers within the entire City to allow the Planning Commission an opportunity to study whether
        and how Data Centers may be allowed within the City and to consider amendments to the Zoning
        Ordinance to appropriately regulate Data Centers.

        Section 4. Study Authorized. The Planning Commission is hereby authorized and directed to
conduct a study of Data Centers including, but not limited to, the appropriate zoning districts for location
of Data Centers; whether Data Centers are to be allowed as permitted, conditional, or interim uses;
potential regulations and performance standards necessary to mitigate potential negative impacts of Data
Centers; how Data Centers are regulated by other local government units; and recommendations as to
how the Zoning Ordinance and other official controls should be amended to regulate Data Centers.

        Section 5. Moratorium Imposed. A moratorium is hereby imposed for the entire City on Data
Centers, which during the term of this Interim Ordinance shall be a prohibited use. During the period of
this moratorium, no new or existing Data Center shall be constructed or expanded in the City, and no
application for any zoning approval, building permit, or other City approval contemplating construction
or expansion of a Data Center shall be accepted, reviewed, processed, or approved by the City.




                                                     2


         Section 6. Term. This Interim Ordinance shall remain in effect for one (1) year from its effective
date unless it is expressly repealed earlier by the City Council or unless a shorter duration is required by
applicable law. If the City adopts an ordinance amending the Zoning Ordinance regulating Data Centers
prior to the expiration of the moratorium, this Interim Ordinance shall terminate on the effective date of
the Zoning Ordinance amendment.

        Section 7. Severability. Every section, provision, and part of this Interim Ordinance is declared
severable from every other section, provision, and part of thereof. If any section, provision, or part of this
Interim Ordinance is held to be invalid by a Court of competent jurisdiction, such judgement shall not
invalidate any other section, provision, or part of this Interim Ordinance.

       Section 8. Effective Date. This Interim Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its
passage and publication.

                        (Remainder of page intentionally blank; signatures follow)




                                                      3


ADOPTED by the Otsego City Council this 27th day of July, 2026.

MOTION BY:
SECONDED BY:
IN FAVOR:
OPPOSED:

                                                                                     CITY OF OTSEGO


                                                              __________________________________
                                                                          Jessica L. Stockamp, Mayor

                                                                                             ATTEST:


                                                              __________________________________
                                                                              Audra Etzel, City Clerk




                                                   4
