CARLTON COUNTY
INTERIM ORDINANCE NUMBER #42

DATA CENTER INTERIM USE STUDY

CARLTON COUNTY
mm MINNESOTA

ANCUS28578

OLENGR Gh COUNTY MINNESOTA

CERTIFIED, FILED, AND/OR
RECORDED ON i

9/2/2026 11:33 AM
REC FEBS: 0.00
PAGES: 4
BRYON BLAIR
CARLTON COUNTY RECORDER
wellges Rec —- NoERedd—
Dep

BY__ALO

Adopted August 24, 2026



Article I. General Provisions and Definitions

Section 1.1 Purpose

This Ordinance places a one-year pause on the creation or expansion of data centers in Carlton
County, pursuant to Minnesota Statutes § 394.34. The purpose of this pause is to protect the planning
process as the County studies data centers and their impacts and its official controls and the need
for possible amendments to its official controls to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of
citizens. Additionally, this ordinance will allow time for the completion of the County’s
Comprehensive Land Use Planning process that began in 2025.

Section 1.2 Background

New and evolving technologies related to artificial intelligence, cloud services, cryptocurrency
mining, and other digital infrastructure have created a demand for new physical data centers at an
unprecedented scale and pace.

The Zoning and Environmental Services Office has begun receiving inquiries about data centers
and regulation of data centers, including comments, questions, and concerns from members of the
public.

Carlton County Zoning Ordinance #27 does not expressly allow, regulate, or impose specific
standards for the issuance of interim or conditional use permits related to data centers. The Carlton
County Planning Commission has had preliminary discussions regarding the possible permitting
for data centers.

Time is needed to study data centers, the impacts of them in Carlton County, and to determine
what modifications, if any, are needed in Carlton County Zoning Ordinance #27.

Section 1.3 Authority

Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes § 394.34, counties have the authority to adopt interim ordinances,
when, among other things, they intend to conduct studies as to whether to amend their official
controls or their comprehensive plan. Such interim ordinances are adopted and put in place in order
to protect public health, safety, and welfare.

Section 1.4 Definitions
For purposes of this ordinance, the following definition shall apply:

Data center shall mean any facility, building, complex, or campus used for housing computers,
servers, storage, or networking equipment used principally to process, transfer, manage, or store
digital information. The term shall also encompass cryptocurrency mining, artificial
intelligence generation, all accessory structures or facilities comprising offices, generators,
water cooling or storage systems, utilities, or other infrastructure related to the digital data
operation. A data center complex/campus may include data management or storage buildings
and ancillary support buildings and structures, including secure and controlled entrances,
perimeter fencing, sally-ports, related construction management buildings, and cargo screening


buildings. The temporary restrictions set forth in Section 1.1 shall apply to any pending or
future zoning applications.

Section 1.5 Relationship with County Zoning Ordinance

The Carlton County Zoning Ordinance #27 shall be used for all administrative procedures,
standards, and definitions not stated in this ordinance.

Article If. Interim Ordinance Established

Section 2.1 Interim Zoning

In accordance with the purpose set forth above, and pursuant to the authority of Minnesota Statutes
§ 394.34 and the jurisdictional authority of the Carlton County Zoning Ordinance #27, a pause is
hereby imposed on the construction or creation or expansion of any data centers in Carlton County.

Section 2.2 Effective Date and Duration

This Ordinance shall take effect on the date of its passage and shall be in effect for a period of one
year from the date of enactment, unless earlier terminated by the Carlton County Board of
Commissioners.

Section 2.3 Prohibitions

No person, firm, entity, or corporation shall create, construct, allow, own, or operate, unless
lawfully in existence on the effective date, a data center within Carlton County until the expiration
or repeal of this Ordinance. No existing data center within Carlton County on the effective date of
this Ordinance shall be expanded in any way until the expiration or repeal of this Ordinance.

No proposal for conditional or interim use, variance, subdivision, or rezoning related to data center
development shall be accepted, processed or approved by staff, the planning commission or the
County Board.

Article HI. Administration and Enforcement
Section 3.1 Enforcement

Carlton County may enforce any provision of this Ordinance by any and all means authorized by
Carlton County Ordinances, state statute, or federal law.

Section 3.2 Severability

Every section, provision, or part of this Ordinance is declared severable from every other section,
provision, or part thereof to the extent that if any section, provision, or part of this Ordinance shall
be held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not invalidate any other section, provision,

or part thereof.


Section 3.3 Study Directed and Authorized

The Carlton County Planning Commission has the responsibility of reviewing proposed
amendments to the County’s official controls. As such, the Planning Commission, with the input
and assistance of staff, is hereby authorized and directed to commence a study on the desirability
and need for the adoption of official controls to regulate the siting, construction, and operation of
data centers within the County in order to protect public health, welfare and safety. The Planning
Commission, with the input and assistance of staff, shall determine the most appropriate means of
conducting the study, including what and how input shall be received from subject-matter experts,
county residents, and other interested parties. If authorized by the County Board, planning
consultants may be utilized in the development of official controls.

Section 3.4 Reports to the County Board

The Planning Commission, by and through the assistance of staff, shall report as it deems
appropriate to the County Board on the progress being made on the study. If not done earlier, there
shall be a progress report made to the County Board in February 2027.

Section 3.5 Study Outcome

The Planning Commission shall, prior to the expiration of this ordinance, make a report and
recommendation with respect to ordinance amendments that the Carlton County Board should
consider adopting regarding data centers.

Article IV. Expiration

This Ordinance shall become null and void upon expiration, or its termination, whichever occurs first.

By: -<7T fQ. R V.Oy
Thomas Proulx

Carlton County Board Chair

Kur: Dw yi / A000528578
Attest: CARLTON COUNTY ZONING DEPARTME!

Kevin DeVriendt CARLTON COUNTY COURTHOUSE

County Auditor/Treasurer CARLTON, MN 55718

Published this 4th day of September 2026 Pine Knot News

Published this 4th day of September 2026 Moose Lake Star Gazette


AFFIDAVIT OF PUBLICATION
STATE OF MINNESOTA)
) ss.
COUNTY OF Carlton)

Jana Peterson, being first duly
sworn, on oath states as follows:

I am the publisher or the authorized
agent of the publisher of the
newspaper known as the

Pine Knot News.

I have personal knowledge of the
facts stated in this Affidavit.

The day of the week and date of the
month and year on which the public
notice attached was published in the
newspaper are as follows:

Friday, August 14, 2026

Carlton County Board of
Commissioners, notice of interim
ordinance, data centers

FURTHER YOUR AFFIANT
SAITH NOT.

a {a \( A VISE
\

Subscribed and sworn to before me
on this 14th day of August 2026.

Lowe Dee how

Notary Public
ROSE IRENE CHU
Notary Public
Minnesota

woeuwew

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
CARLTON COUNTY BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO
ENACT AN INTERIM
ORDINANCE TO STUDY DATA
CENTERS IN
CARLTON COUNTY
The Carlton County Board of Com-
missioners will hold 8 public hearing
on Monday, August 24, 2026, at 4:15
P.M. at the Carlton County Transpor-
tation Building, 1630 County Read 61,
Carlton, Minnesota, to consider the
foltowing:
An interim ordinance placing a one-
year pause on the creation or expan-
sion of data centers in Cartten Coun-
ty, pursuant to Minnesota Statutes &
394,34. The purpose of this pause is
to protect the planning process as the
County studies data centers and their
impacts and its official controls and
the need for possible amendments
to its official contre!s to protect the
health, safety, and general welfare of
citizens.
A copy of the proposed interim
ordinance will be available for review
in the Carlton County Zoning and
Environmental Services Office and
online at the Carlton County website,
carltoncountymn.gov. Electronic
copy can be provided by the Carton
County Zoning and Environmental
Services Office by email: chris.berg@
carltoncountymn.gov
BY ORDER OF THE CARLTON COUN-
TY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
Js/ Chris Berg
Zoning and Environmental Services
Administrator
PKN Aug. 14, 2026


AFFIDAVIT OF PUBLICATION

STATE OF MINNESOTA)
) ss.
COUNTY OF CARLTON)

Athena Schirmer, being first duly sworn, on oath states as follows:

1. Lam the publisher of the MOOSE LAKE GAZETTE or the publisher’s
designated agent. I have personal knowledge of the facts stated in this Affidavit,
which is made pursuant of Minnesota Statutes 33 1A.07.

2. The newspaper has complied with all of the requirements to constitute a
qualified newspaper under Minnesota law, including those requirements

found in Minnesota Statutes 331A.02.

3. The dates of the month and the year and day of the week upon which the

public notice attached/copied below was published in the newspaper are as follows:

Once a week, for 1 successive week(s): it was first published on every
Friday, the 4" day of September, 2026 and was thereafter printed and
published on every Friday to and including Friday the 4° day of
September, 2026.

4. The publisher’s lowest classified rate paid by commercial users for
comparable space, as determined pursuant to 331A.06, is as follows:

a) Lowest classified rate paid by commercial users for comparable space
b) Maximum rate allowed by law for the above matter

c) Rate actually charged for the above matter

5. Mortgage Foreclosure Notices. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes 580,033

relating to the publication of mortgage foreclosure notices. The
newspaper’s know office of issue is located in Pine County. The
newspaper complies with the conditions described in 580.033, subd. 1,
clause (1) or (2). Lf the newspaper’s known office of issue is located in
acounty adjoining the county where the mortgaged premises or some part
of the mortgaged premises described in the notice are located, a substantial
portion of the newspaper’s circulation is in the latter county.

FURTHER YOUR AFFIANT SAITH NOT.

BY:
TITLE: Admin. Assistant, Athena Schirmer

Subscribed and sworn to before me on this 4° day of September, 2026.
By Athena S: er

Notary Pubfic

Lorrie Marie Bauer
Notary Public
Minnesota
Ny Commission Expires January 31,2028

$9.00 per inch
$13.50 per inch

$15 per inch

BELOW IS INTERIM ORDINANCE
#42 - CARLTON COUNTY
DATA CENTER INTERIM USE
STUDY ADOPTED BY THE
CARLTON COUNTY BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS
AUGUST 24, 2026.

Article f, General Provisions and
Definttions

Section 1.1 Purpose

This Ordinance places a one-year
pause on the creation or expansion of
data centers in Carlton County, pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes § 394.34. The purpose
of this pause is to protect the planning
process as the County studies data centers
and their impacts and its official controls
and the need for possible amendments
fo its official controls to protest the-health,
safety, and general welfare of citizens.
Additionally, this ordinance will allow

+ time for the completion of the County's

Comprehensive Land Use Planning
process that began in 2025.

Section 1.2 Background

New and evolving technologies related
to artifidial intelligence, cloud . services, ”
eryptocurrency mining, and other digital
infrastructure have created-a demand

‘for new physical data centers at an

unprecedented scale and pace.

The Zoning and Environmental

Services Otfice has begun receiving
inquiries ‘about data centers arid regulation
of data centers, including comments,
questions, and concems from members:
of the public.
- Carlton: County Zoning Ordinance #27
does not expressly allaw, regulate, or
impose specific standards for the issuance
of interim or conditional use permits related
to data centers. The Carlton County
Ptanning. Commission, has had preliminary
discussions regarding the possible
permitting for datacenters.

Time is needéd to study data centers,
the impacts of them in Carlton County,
and to determine what modifications, if
any, are needed in Carlton Gounty Zoning
Ordinance #27.

Section 1.3 Authority

Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes §
394.34, counties have the authority to
adopt inférim ordinances, when, among
other things, they intend to conduct
studies as to whether to amend their
official controls or their comprehensive
plan. Such interim ordinances are adopted
and put in place in order to protect public
health, safety, and welfare.

Section 1.4 Detinitions

For purposes of this ordinance, the
following definition shall, apply:

Data center shal! mean any facility,
building, complex, or campus used for
housing computers, servers, storage, OF
networking equipment used principally
to process, transfer, manage, oF store
digitat information. The term ‘shall also
encompass ¢ryptocurrency mining, artificial
intelligence generation. alll accessory
structures or facilities comprising offices,
generators, water cooling or storage
systems, utilities, or other infrastructure
related to the digital data operation. A
data center complexfcampus. may include
data management or storage buildings and
ancillary support buildings and structures,
including secure and controlled. entrances,
perimeter fencing, sally-ports, selated
construction management buildings, and
cargo screening buildings. The temporary
resttictions set forth in Section 1.1 shall
apply to any pending of future zoning
applications.

Section 1.5 Relationship with County
Zoning Ordinance

The Carlton County Zoning Ordinance
#27 shall be used for all administrative
procedures, standards, and definitions not
stated in this ordinance.

Article 1. Interim Ordinance
Established


Section 2.1 interim Zoning

In accordance with the purpose set
forth above, and pursuant to the authority
of Minnesota Statutes

§ 394.34 and the jurisdictional authority
of the Carlton County Zoning Ordinance
#27, a pause is hereby imposed on the
construction or creation or expansion of
any data centers in Carlton County.

Section 2.2 Effective Date and
Duration

This Ordinance shall take effect on the
date of its passage and shall be in effect
for a period of one year fromthe date of
enactment, unless earller terminated by the
Carton County Board of Commissioners.

Section 2.3 Prohibitions

No person, firm, entity, or corporation
shall create, construct, allow, own, or
operate, uniess lawfully in existerice on.the
effective date, a data center within Carlton
County untif the expiration.or sepeal of this
Ordinance. No existing data center within
Carlton Gounty on the effective date of
this Ordinance shall be expanded in, any

Ordinance.

No proposaf for conditional or interim
use, variance, subdivision, or rezoning
related to data center development shall be
accepted, processed or approved by staff,
the planning commission or the County

Article ill, Administration and
Enforcement at

‘Section 9.1. Enforcement

Carlton County may enforce any.
provision of this Ordinance by any -and
all means authorized by Cartton County
Ordinances, state statute, or federal law.

Section 3.2 Severability

Every section, provision, or part of
this Ordinance is declared severable from
every other section, provision, or part
thereof to the extent that if any section,
provision, or part of this Ordinance shall
be held invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, it shall not invalidate any other
section, provision, or part thereof.

Section 3.3 Study Directed and
Authorized

The Carlton County Flanning
Commission has the responsibility of
reviewing proposed amendments to the
County's official controls. As such, the
Planning Commission, with the input and
assistance of staff, is hereby authorized
and: directed to commence a study on
the desirability and need for.the adaption
of official controls to regulate the siting,
construction, and operation of data centers
within the County in order to ‘protect
public health, welfare and safety. The
Planning Commission, with the input and
assistance of staff, shall determine the
most appropriate means of conducting the
‘study, including what and how input shall
be received from subject-matter experts,
county residents, and other Interested
partias. If authorized by the County Board,
planning consultants may be utilized in the
development of official controls.

Section 3.4 Reports to the County
Board

The Planning Gommission, by and
through the assistance of staff, shall report
as it deems appropriate to the County
Board on the progress being made on the
study. {f not done earlier, there shall be a
progress report made to.the County Board
in February 2027.

‘Section 3.5 Study Outcome

The Planning Commission shalt, prior
to the expiration of this ordinance, make
a report and recommendation with respect
te ordinance amendments that the Cariton
.County Board should consider adopting
regarding data centers.

Article lV, Explration

This Ordinance shall become null and
void upon expiration, or its termination,
whichever occurs first.

Published In the Moose Lake Star-
Gazette Sept. 4, 2026

way until the expiration or repeal of this
