OTSEGO CITY COUNCIL MEETING
MONDAY, JULY 27, 2026
7:00 PM
OTSEGO PRAIRIE CENTER

Call to Order:
Mayor Stockamp called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

Roll Call:

Mayor Jessica Stockamp and Councilmembers: Ryan Dunlap, Tina Goede, Michelle Lund, and
Corey Tanner. City Staff: City Administrator/Finance Director Adam Flaherty, Fire Chief Jim
McCoy, City Planner Dan Licht, City Engineer Ron Wagner, Assistant City Attorney Richard
Hansen, and City Clerk Audra Etzel.

Pledge of Allegiance:
Mayor Stockamp led in the Pledge of Allegiance.

1. Open Forum:
Mayor Stockamp opened the Open Forum at 7:01 PM.

Kathy Coles, 15613 90" Street NE provided an updated photo of Coborn’s showing they have
not completed the screening. City Planner Licht said staff will continue to follow-up with
Coborn’s.

Mayor Stockamp closed the Open Forum at 7:02 PM.
2. Consider Agenda Approval:

CM Dunlap asked to have item 3.3 removed from the consent agenda for discussion, adding
items 7.1, and requested to add item 8.2 Wright County Community Action Contract.

CM Dunlap motioned to approve the agenda as amended, seconded by CM Tanner. All in
favor. Motion carried 5-0.

3. Consent Agenda:
3.1 Approve Claims List.
3.2 Approve City Council Meeting Minutes.
A. July 13, 2026, Meeting.
3:3-——Approve Pay Application #19 forthe Fire Station Facility Project. Moved to item 7.1
3. Approve Pay Application #5 (Final) for the Odean Avenue Watermain & PRV Project.
3.5 Accept Proposal and Authorize Special Inspection and Testing Services — Wellhouse No.

3 Water Treatment,
3.6 Approve Issuance of Temporary On-Sale Liquor License — Otsego Lion’s Club.
3.7 Approve Resolution 2026-54 Approving an Interim Use Permit for Hemple Properties.
3.8 Approve Hiring of Utility Billing Position.

Page 1 of 5


MINUTES OF THE CITY OF OTSEGO REGULAR CITY COUNCIL MEETING JULY 27, 2026

3.9 Approve Pay Application #1 for the 2026 Mill & Overlay Project.

3.10 Approve Plans and Specifications, Authorize Bids and Pre-Procurement for Greenway
Trail Projects.

3.11 Accept Resignation from a City Employee — Mechanic.

3.12 Approve Purchase of Fleet Vehicle — Tandem Axle Dump Truck.

3.13 Approve Resolution 2026-55 Approving Connection to City Sewer for 5886 Rawlings Ave.

CM Dunlap motioned to approve the consent agenda as amended, seconded by CM Tanner.
Allin favor. Motion carried 5-0.

4. Public Hearing:
41 Interim Ordinance — Data Center Land Use
A. Presentation by City Planner.
B. Conduct Public Hearing.
C. Consider Ordinance 2026-11 Imposing a Moratorium and Authorizing Study.

City Planner Licht reviewed the staff report and presentation.
Mayor Stockamp opened the Public Hearing at 7:15 PM.

Mary Barthelemy, 7589 Odell Lane NE provided information regarding Data Centers and
supports the data center moratorium and study.

Jonathan Heinrichs, 14695 92" Street NE supports the data center moratorium and study.
Patricia Kessler, 10640 74" Street NE supports the data center moratorium and study.

Mayor Stockamp closed the Public Hearing at 7:25 PM.

City Planner Licht said the residents had good questions and the study will help answer those
questions, noting the moratorium will expire in one year or once the study has been completed

and an ordinance has been adopted.

The City Council discussed their concerns with water, noise, setbacks and safety, and agreed
with the benefits of imposing the data center moratorium and conducting a study.

CM Tanner motioned to adopt Ordinance 2026-11 imposing a moratorium and authorizing
study of official controls for data centers, seconded by CM Lund. Allin favor. Motion carried
5-0.

5. Planning:
5.1 Jacobs Plat Second Addition (Endeavor Investments XII, LLC).
A. Presentation by City Planner.
B. Consider Resolution 2025-56 Vacating Existing Drainage and Utility Easements.

Page 2 of 5


MINUTES OF THE CITY OF OTSEGO REGULAR CITY COUNCIL MEETING JULY 27, 2026

Cc. Consider Resolution 2026-57 Approving the Jacobs Plat Second Addition Final
Plat.

D. Consider Resolution 2026-58 Approving a Development Contract.

E, Consider Resolution 2026-59 Approving a Special Assessment Agreement for 65”
Street.

FE. Consider Resolution 2026-60 Approving a Special Assessment Agreement for

Utility Availability Charges.

City Planner Licht reviewed the staff report and presentation.

Evan Mattson, representing Endeavor Investments XII, LLC. agreed with the staff report and
was present to answer questions.

CM Dunlap asked about the condition of the property owner to not be able to appeal their
property value. City Planner Licht said the City is using reserve funds to finance the public
improvements and does not want to see the property tax revenues reduced while financing
their project.

CM Lund asked about the duration of the street project. City Engineer Wagner reviewed the
process and noted the project would be designed this winter, plans and specs around early
2027, construction in summer of 2027, and a second lift of asphalt the following year.

CM Dunlap motioned to adopt Resolution 2026-56 vacating existing drainage and utility
easements within the Jacobs Plat, seconded by CM Tanner. Allin favor. Motion carried 5-0.

CM Dunlap motioned to adopt Resolution 2026-57 approving the Jacobs Plat Second Addition
Final Plat, subject to conditions as presented; Resolution 2026-58 approving a Development
Contract; Resolution 2026-59 approving a Special Assessment Agreement for 65" Street; and
Resolution 2026-60 approving a Special Assessment Agreement for Utility Availability
Charges, seconded by CM Tanner. All in favor. Motion carried 5-0.

6. Public Works:

6.1 Storm Water Pollution Prevention Program.
A. Presentation by City Engineer
B. Receive Public Comments.

City Engineer Wagner reviewed the staff report and power point presentation regarding the
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Program.

Mayor Stockamp asked for public comments at 7:54 PM.

Patricia Kessler, 10640 74 Street NE had a question about trees in a wetland near her home.
City Planner Licht advised her to leave her contact information and staff will follow up with her
on the specifics of her questions.

Page 3 of 5


MINUTES OF THE CITY OF OTSEGO REGULAR CITY COUNCIL MEETING JULY 27, 2026

The City Council agreed with the information presented and no formal action was required.

7. City Council Reports and Updates:

TA Approve Pay Application #19 for the Fire & Emergency Services Facility Project.

CM Dunlap moved that the City Council finds Councilmember Goede has a potential conflict of
interest with respect to this agenda item and to protect the integrity of the City Council’s
proceedings, preserve the validity of an action taken, and safeguard the public trust, CM Dunlap
further moves that the Councilmember be requested to refrain from participating in discussion
and voting on this matter, and that the minutes reflect the nature of the conflict and the
member’s non-participation.

CM Goede said she does not have a conflict of interest. CM Dunlap feels there is a conflict of
interest and recommends CM Goede not participate. City Attorney Hansen said this request is
for payment to a contractor and CM Goede is not a contractor or an employee of the
contractor, she is an at will employee of the City, therefore does not see this as a conflict of
interest.

CM Dunlap is on the other side of the decision, and feels CM Goede has a representing interest,
and feels she should recuse herself. City Attorney Hansen reaffirmed the payments are going
to contractors, and under the law this is not a conflict of interest.

Voting in favor: Dunlap. Voting against: Stockamp, Lund, Goede, and Tanner. Motion failed
1-4.

CM Dunlap opposes this action because the City receives services from the existing contract
providers at a price point that is cost-effective for the taxpayers, noting the cost to date.

CM Tanner motioned to approve Pay Application #19 in the amount of $167,813.70 for work
completed on the Fire Station project, seconded by CM Lund. Voting in favor: Stockamp,
Goede, Lund, and Tanner. Voting against: Dunlap. Motion carried 4-1.

A. Heritage Preservation Commission CM Tanner said the Commission’s next
meeting has been rescheduled to August 19" due to the Primary Election

B. Parks and Recreation Commission Liaison CM Lund said the July meeting was
cancelled.

Cc. Planning Commission Liaison CM Dunlap said the Commission met last week to
review applications and their next commission meeting will be August 17".

D. Public Safety Commission Liaison CM Goede said the Commission discussed

ambulance service.

8. Staff Reports and Updates:
8.1 Consider Special City Council Meetings 5:30 PM on August 10, 2026, and August 24,
2026.

Page 4of 5


MINUTES OF THE CITY OF OTSEGO REGULAR CITY COUNCIL MEETING JULY 27, 2026

City Administrator/Finance Director Flaherty is looking to schedule two Special City Council
meetings to review the 2027 budgets.

CM Tanner motioned to schedule a Special City Council meeting for August 10, 2026, at 5:30
PM and August 24**, 2026, at 5:30 PM to review the 2027 budgets, seconded by Mayor
Stockamp. Allin favor. Motion carried 5-0.

8.2 Wright County Community Action Contract.
A. Presentation by City Administrator.
B. Consider Wright County Community Action Contract.

City Administrator/Finance Director Flaherty reviewed the packet materials.

Mayor Stockamp asked about other the other cities. Flaherty said Monticello and Buffalo
developed their own programs. CM Dunlap noted the small amount of funds and agrees with
pooling the funds.

CM Goede motioned to approve a Purchase of Services Contract between Wright County
Community Action, Inc., Wright County, City of Otsego, and the City of St. Michael, seconded
by CM Tanner. Allin favor. Motion carried 5-0.

Etzel provided election updates including candidate filing periods and early voting.

Fire Chief Mccoy provided updates on fire station construction, ambulance service, grass
watering schedule, equipment, and Fire Marshal.

Sergeant Jason Oltmanns, Wright County Sheriff's Office provided updates regarding Sheriffs
stickers, heat has increased call volume, Wright County Fair, cases and court trials, and new
deputies.

9. Adjourn.
CM Goede motioned to adjourn at 8:22 PM, seconded by CM Lund. Allin favor. Motions ‘OF On
RATE

carried 5-0.

Minutes prepared by Audra Etzel, City Clerk.
City of Otsego:

Bs0%

Onna kitreicangy” ‘an

Jessida Stockamp, Mayor

attest: © Sirclaa at

CB Etzel, City Clerk

Page 5 of 5
