RECEIVED FOR RECORD
Sep 01,2026 117358

Jofinn Doyle
Ou cLeRe” — S—
CROAWELL + CT

Town of Cromwell
Planning & Zoning Commission

REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, AUGUST 18, 2026
7:00 PM
CROMWELL TOWN HALL
41 WEST STREET, COUNCIL CHAMBERS

Minutes & Record of Votes

Present: Chair Alice Kelly, Vice-Chair Michael Cannata, Andrew Holt, Nick Demetriades
(arrived 7:04 P.M.), Richard Nordmann, Vincenzo Marfella

Absent: Jonathan Comtois, Ann Grasso, Ken Rozich, Marc Dufresne, Brian Dufresne, Douglas
Kalinowski

Also present: Director of Planning & Development, Andrew J. Armstrong
1. Callto Order

The meeting was called to order at 7:02 P.M. by Chair Kelly.

2. Roll Call

The presence of the above Members was noted.

3. Seating of Alternates
4. Approval of Agenda

A motion was made by Michael Cannata, seconded by Andrew Holt to approve the Agenda. All were in
favor; the motion passed.

5. Public Comments
None.
6. Director of Planning & Development’s Report

Mr. Armstrong shared with the Commissioners Bruce Driska has retired as the full-time Zoning
Enforcement Officer, and will work part time. He told the Commissioners that the position has been
posted. Mr. Armstrong commended Mr. Driska for his excellent service to the Town, and shared that staff
would miss Mr. Driska’s presence and expertise in the office on a daily basis. There will be coffee and
cake to celebrate Mr. Driska’s retirement on Friday, August 21, 2026 from 10:00 A.M. — 11:30 A.M. ithe
Belden Room.


Mr. Armstrong reported the Town has signed a contract with a consultant, IMEG, to rewrite and update
the Town of Cromwell’s Zoning Regulations; There will be more to come in the following weeks and
months.

Mr. Armstrong reviewed the Aquifer Protection Agency (APA) responsibilities under the Planning &
Zoning Commission, and told the Commissioners to expect an Application to be submitted to the APA

shortly.

Mr. Armstrong reviewed the new business happenings in Town. Mr. Armstrong confirmed 100 Berlin
Road has not yet filed for a demolition permit.

The Commissioners also discussed the required training options available to them.

7. New Business & Accept and Schedule Applications

a. Release of Performance Bond #1947 - Request for the release of a Performance Bond for 9
Winchester Way in the amount of $8,217.00 plus interest.

Mr. Armstrong referred to Mr. Driska’s memo dated July 29, 2026 which outlined his recommendation
for the release of the Performance Bond at 9 Winchester Way.

A motion was made by Michael Cannata, seconded by Vincenzo Marfella to release the Performance
Bond (#1947) for 9 Winchester Way in the amount of $8,217.00 plus interest, per the recommendation of
staff. All were in favor; the motion passed.

b. Application #26-24 - Application for a Special Permit for the continuation of an existing automotive
services and general repair use under new ownership per Section 4.3.M of the Town of Cromwell Zoning
Regulations, at 50 County Line Drive, in the Industrial (I) zone; Driving Force Holdings, LLC d/b/a
Brothers Autobody, applicant; Brothers Properties, LLC, owner.

Mr. Armstrong told the Commissioners that there are no changes to the existing use or Site Plan at 50
CountyLine Drive, just a change of ownership. Mr. Armstrong reminded the Commissioners that auto
services require a Special Permit so a new Application must be submitted under the new owners’ names.

A motion was made by Michael Cannata, seconded by Richard Nordmann to accept and schedule
Application #26-24 for a Public Hearing on September 15,2026. All were in favor; the motion passed.

c. Application #26-25— Application for a text amendment to the Cromwell Zoning Regulations Section
4.2.E. for a moratorium on data centers.

Mr. Armstrong read the Application and told the Commissioners that the text amendment request came
from Chair Kelly. Mr. Armstrong explained the current Zoning Regulations have no definition or
Regulations for a data center use, therefore, developing criteria would go in tandem with the scheduled
revision of the Zoning Regulations.

The proposed moratorium would be a way to protect the Town’s from a data center use application until
the Regulations have been revised, and have been studied, formulated, and implemented. The proposed
timeframe for the Moratorium is twelve (12) months.


The suggested time is 12 months, plenty of time to revise the current Zoning Regulations.

Mr. Cannata told the Commissioners that he is not in favor of a moratorium, and shared that there is a
potential Applicant who has been working with the Town for the past nine months. Mr. Cannata explained
that the potential Applicant has already secured an option on a property so in his estimation, the proposed
moratorium would be akin to “pulling the rug out from the potential Applicant.” Mr. Cannata suggested
that the Commission work on the language for the Regulations but not impose a moratorium.

The Commissioners discussed possible concerns with data centers and the reasons for wanting to create
Regulations that would protect the Town. The Commissioners also discussed what an appropriate amount
of time would be for a moratorium. Mr. Armstrong stated there were no known or pending applications for
a data center use.

Commissioners Nick Demetriads and Vincenzo Marfella indicated support of the moratorium as proposed,
indicating twelve months was appropriate.

A motion was made by Andrew Holt, seconded by Vincenzo Marfella, to accept and schedule Application

#26-25 for a Public Hearing at a Special Meeting on September 24, 2026. Chair Kelly, Vincenzo
Marfella, Andrew Holt, Nick Demetriades, Richard Nordmann approved; Michael Cannata opposed.

The motion passed, 5 to I.

8. Public Hearings

a. Application #26-21: Application for a text amendment to the Town of Cromwell Zoning Regulations, as
it relates to the State of CT Housing Bill (HB 8002, An Act Concerning Housing Growth) with the following
revisions to the Zoning Regulations outlined in the memo dated June 9, 2026 and titled Town of Cromwell

Public Act 25-1 Zoning Compliance update and with the following correction to the memo: Section
4.3.0.8.; Replace all references to “ground floor” with “first floor”; Town of Cromwell, Applicant.

Mr. Armstrong read Application #26-21.

A motion was made by Michael Cannata, seconded by Andrew Holt to open the Public Hearing
for Application #26-21. All were in favor; the motion passed.

Mr. Armstrong stated he has not received any feedback, questions or concerns about this Application from

staff or the public. He confirmed that River COG and CRCOG had no response to the referral. Chair Kelly
acknowledged

there was no one from the public present at the meeting.

A motion was made by Michael Cannata, seconded by Andrew Holt to close the Public Hearing for
Application #26-21. All were in favor; the motion passed.

A motion was made by Michael Cannata, seconded by Vincenzo Marfella to approve Application #26-21.
All were in favor; the motion passed.
9. Communications

a. Memo: Update of Cromwell Ordinance Chapter 236 Zoning: Proposed increase of the maximum


Zoning citation fine permitted.
Mr. Armstrong explained legislation passed that increased the maximum amount of a Zoning violation
fine, and it was working through the Town Council for approval. Mr. Armstrong informed the
Commissioners that Mr. Driska proposed a progressive citation schedule. Mr. Cannata confirmed the
Town Council approved the amounts at their last meeting.
10. Approval of Minutes

a. Regular Meeting — June 2, 2026

A motion was made by Michael Cannata, seconded by Andrew Holt, to approve the minutes of June 2,
2026. All were in favor; the motion passed.

b. Special Meeting — June 30, 2026
There were not enough members present from the June 30, 2026 meeting to vote on the minutes.
11. Commissioner's Comments
12. Adjourn

A motion was made by Michael Cannata and seconded by Vincenzo Marfella to adjourn at 8:14 P.M. All
were in favor; the motion passed.

Submitted by,

Linda imme

Linda Imme
Recording Clerk
