BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS                                        ORDINANCE NO.
  AN ORDINANCE BY THE PASCO COUNTY BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
  ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON THE SUBMISSION AND ACCEPTANCE
  OF APPLICATIONS FOR BUILDING PERMITS, SITE PLANS, DEVELOPMENT ORDERS,
  DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS, SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES, CONDITIONAL USES,
  REZONINGS, AND COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS RELATED TO DATA CENTERS,
  LARGE-SCALE DATA CENTERS AND OTHER LARGE LOAD CUSTOMERS WITHIN
  UNINCORPORATED PASCO COUNTY; PROVIDING FOR AUTHORITY; LEGISLATIVE
  FINDINGS OF FACT; TEMPORARY MORATORIUM IMPOSED; DURATION OF TEMPORARY
  MORATORIUM; SEVERABILITY; AND AN EFFECTIVE DATE.

       WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners of Pasco County, Florida, (hereinafter the
“Board”) has the authority pursuant to Chapter 125, Florida Statutes, and Article VIII of the Florida
Constitution to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare of its residents and to enact
ordinances for valid governmental purposes that are not inconsistent with general or special law; and
       WHEREAS, Chapter Law 2026-65 creating Section 163.326, Florida Statutes, specifically
provides for the authority of the Board to regulate facilities with substantial electric or other utility
demands, such as data centers, large-scale data centers, as defined in Sections 373.203(3) and (4),
Florida Statutes, and other large load customers, as defined in Section 366.043(2)(d), Florida Statutes,
through comprehensive plans and land development regulations. Further, newly created Section
373.262, Florida Statutes, provides that local governments may prohibit the siting of large-scale data
centers within their jurisdictions; and
       WHEREAS, Pasco County is located within a coastal region and in the Tampa Bay Area, an
area that relies heavily upon groundwater resources from the Floridan Aquifer system and surface
waters; and
       WHEREAS, the Southwest Florida Water Management District and Tampa Bay Water, of which
Pasco County is a member, emphasize the importance of careful management of groundwater
withdrawals and surface water resources to ensure long-term environmental and economic stability for
the region; and
       WHEREAS, data centers, large-scale data centers, and other large load customers (hereinafter
referred to collectively as “Data Center Facilities”) are known to require substantial water resources for
cooling systems and substantial electrical power to support continuous computing operations, which in
some cases require infrastructure demands comparable to small municipalities; and
       WHEREAS, such Facilities have the potential to place significant demands on regional water
supplies, water treatment infrastructure, electrical grid capacity, particularly in rapidly growing areas
such as Pasco County; and
       WHEREAS, such Facilities are typically massive in scale, covering vast land areas hundreds

                                                                                                      1
of acres in size with buildings and infrastructure, while providing little to no employment opportunities;
and
       WHEREAS, the Board finds that Pasco County currently lacks specific zoning provisions or
development      regulations   addressing   the   unique   operational   characteristics,   infrastructure
requirements, and environmental considerations associated with Data Center Facilities; and
       WHEREAS, the Board further finds that allowing such Facilities to proceed without appropriate
regulatory standards would create risks to the County’s and the Region’s water resources, electrical
infrastructure capacity, and land use planning objectives, will undermine economic development
initiatives and long-term community development strategy; and
       WHEREAS, local governments may enact moratoriums if the moratorium is intended to
preserve the status quo and is rationally related to the government’s attempt to enact changes to
development regulations. (WCI Communities Inc. v. City of Coral Springs, 885 So. 2d 912 (Fla. 4th
DCA 2004)); and
       WHEREAS, Florida courts have held that permissible basis for land use restrictions include
concern about the effect of the proposed development on traffic, congestion, surrounding property
values, demands for public services, and on other aspects of the general welfare. (WCI Communities
Inc. v. City of Coral Springs, 885 So.2d 912 (Fla. 4th DCA 2004; see also Corn v. City of Lauderdale
Lakes, 997 F.2d 1369, 1375 (11th Cir. 1993)); and
       WHEREAS, local governments are entitled to enact moratoriums as a land-use tool to promote
effective planning and preserve the status quo while formulating a more permanent development
strategy. (Tahoe-Sierra Pres. Council, Inc. v. Tahoe Reg’l Planning Agency, 535 U.S. 302, 337; 122
S.Ct. 1465, 1487 (2002); and
       WHEREAS, a temporary moratorium on the submission and acceptance of applications for
building permits, site plans, development orders, development agreements, special exception uses,
conditional uses, rezonings, and comprehensive plan amendments related to Data Center Facilities
within unincorporated Pasco County will allow the Board the opportunity to determine the
appropriateness of allowing such uses and adopt amendments to the Pasco County Comprehensive
Plan, Land Development Code, and Code of Ordinances, as may be required, to regulate or prohibit
such uses; and
       WHEREAS, the Board wishes to establish a temporary moratorium of up to one (1) year on the
submission and acceptance of applications for building permits, site plans, development orders,
development agreements, special exception uses, conditional uses, rezonings, and comprehensive
plan amendments related to Data Center Facilities within the unincorporated area and such moratorium
is reasonable and necessary to accomplish the goal of revising its regulations to ensure the community

                                                                                                      2
 welfare is well-balanced and the public health, safety, and general welfare are preserved; and
        WHEREAS, public notice of all hearings required by law has been provided in accordance with
 Chapters 125 and 163, Florida Statutes, and the Pasco County Land Development Code; and
        WHEREAS, the Board hereby finds and declares that this Ordinance imposing a moratorium on
 the submission and acceptance of applications for building permits, site plans, development orders,
 development agreements, special exception uses, conditional uses, rezonings, and comprehensive
 plan amendments related to Data Center Facilities is in the best interest of the public health, safety, and
 welfare, and that it advances a valid and important public purpose.


        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of County Commissioners of Pasco
 County, Florida, as follows:


        SECTION 1.      Authority.
 This Ordinance is enacted pursuant to Chapter 125, Florida Statutes, and under the home rule powers
 of the County in the interest of the health, peace, safety, and general welfare of the people of Pasco
 County.


        SECTION 2.      Legislative Findings of Fact.
The foregoing Whereas clauses, incorporated herein, are true and correct. The Board further finds
that to enable the Planning Development and Economic Growth Department and other affected
County Departments the opportunity to research, study, and determine the appropriate treatment of
Data Center Facilities in Pasco County, it is necessary to place a moratorium on the submission and
acceptance of applications for building permits, site plans, development orders, development
agreements, special exception uses, conditional uses, rezonings, and comprehensive plan
amendments related to Data Center Facilities within the unincorporated area.


        SECTION 3.      Applicability.
 The temporary moratorium is applicable to the unincorporated area of Pasco County, Florida. This
 temporary moratorium shall not apply to server rooms and computer rooms typically used to house IT
 and related network equipment located internally to a building where such rooms are incidental to the
 primary use in the building or on the site. After a determination of public necessity by the Board, an
 existing development agreement may be amended, or a new one adopted, by the Board to allow for
 the construction of a data center that is not a large load customer provided the agreement imposes


                                                                                                        3
specific conditions addressing, including, but not limited to, all of the following: location, size, light,
glare, height, water use, electrical power consumption, noise, and compatibility.


      SECTION 4. Temporary Moratorium Imposed.
The County hereby imposes a temporary moratorium on the submission and acceptance of
applications for building permits, site plans, development orders, development agreements, special
exception uses, conditional uses, rezonings, and comprehensive plan amendments related to Data
Center Facilities within the unincorporated areas. The adoption of this Ordinance is undertaken by
the County in good faith and is intended to further the goals of the Comprehensive Plan and Chapter
163, Florida Statutes, and Chapter Law 2026-65 and is not intended to discriminate against those
landowners which may be subject to this Ordinance.


       SECTION 5.      Duration of Temporary Moratorium.
The duration of this temporary moratorium shall be 12 months, or until such time as repealed by the
Board, whichever occurs first, and may be extended by resolution of the Board to the extent permitted
by law. In addition, this temporary moratorium shall not exceed 12 months unless approved by the
Board of County Commissioners by a majority vote. The limited duration of this temporary moratorium
has been established to accomplish appropriate planning and regulations for future development
through the Land Development Code amendment process as described in Chapter 163, Part II, Florida
Statutes, and the Comprehensive Plan.


       SECTION 6.      Severability.
It is declared to be the intent of the Board that if any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or
provision of this Ordinance shall be declared invalid, the remainder of this Ordinance shall be
construed as not having contained said section, subsection, sentence, clause, or provisions and
shall not be affected by such holding.




                                                                                                       4
         SECTION 7.    Effective Date.
This Ordinance shall be filed with the Florida Department of State by the Clerk to the Board by
electronic mail within ten (10) days after adoption and shall take effect upon such filing.


ADOPTED with a quorum present and voting this 14th day of July, 2026.




                                                             BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
(SEAL)                                                       OF PASCO COUNTY, FLORIDA


ATTEST:




  ______________________________________
  NIKKI ALVAREZ-SOWLES, ESQ                                      JACK MARIANO, CHAIRMAN
  PASCO COUNTY CLERK & COMPTROLLER




                                                                                              5
