                            ORDINANCE

      AN ORDINANCE OF THE WALTON COUNTY BOARD OF COUNTY
      COMMISSIONERS BANNING DATA CENTERS; PROVIDING FOR
      CONFLICTS AND SEVERABILITY; AND PROVIDING AN
      EFFECTIVE DATE

      WHEREAS, the Walton County Board of County Commissioners (the
“Board”) has authority, generally under Chapters 125 and 163 of Florida
Statutes and specifically Chapter 2026-65, Laws of Florida, to regulate large
load customers, specifically data centers, and;

      WHEREAS, the Board through the adoption of its Comprehensive Plan
and related ordinances, resolutions, and polices; together with its long-standing
commitment to preservation and conservation of natural resources has identified
that protecting the natural resources to be a paramount concern for the public and
benefits the public, and;

      WHEREAS, the Board has observed the proliferation of large load
centers, specifically those classified as “data centers” around the country, and
recognizes the adverse impacts these developments create for the community and
the drain on natural resources, and;

      WHEREAS, the Board, upon the advice of Planning Staff, has determined
that large load centers, and specifically data centers, are neither expressly
allowed or disallowed in any specific land use category or zoning district
presently, but that the nature of this type of development is inherently contrary to
the Comprehensive Plan and the County’s position on conservation and
preservation of natural resources, among other long-held policies that are in the
best interests of the public, and;

      WHEREAS, the Board deems that it is in the public’s interest to thereby
create a complete and outright prohibition on large load centers, specifically data
centers, applicable in all land use categories and zoning districts across all of Walton
County, and;

      WHEREAS, the Board is aware of the slow erosion of home rule for Florida
Counties and Municipalities that has occurred based on state legislation, but the
                                       Page 1 of 3
Florida Legislature has now expressly authorized action contemplated herein to be
undertaken by local governments, and the failure to immediately act could result in
future removal of such authorization or preemption by the State without
grandfathered status of this prohibition, and;

       WHEREAS, the development of any project that would be banned hereunder
presents an imminent threat to the public and the natural resources of the County, and
thus an emergency basis under Florida Statutes exist for the adoption of this
ordinance, and;

       NOW THEREFORE, the Board of County Commissioners of Walton
County does amend the County Code of Ordinances to create a new Appendix
C, Land Development Code, Chapter IV - Resource Protection Standards,
Section 4.10.00 - Prohibited Development, and subsequent subsections, which
shall henceforth read as follows:

Appendix C, Land Development Code, Chapter IV - Resource Protection
        Standards, Section 4.10.00 - Prohibited Development.

Sec. 4.10.00. General.

      Walton County recognizes that certain types of development are so contrary
and repugnant to the best interests of the County and the public, and are
inconsistent with Comprehensive Plan and other adopted laws, policies, and
regulations of the County, that a complete prohibition, applying County-wide,
across all land use categories and zoning districts, is necessary to be implemented.

     Any development prohibited in this section shall be deemed completely and
permanently prohibited, and based upon this Section being a direct extension of the
Comprehensive Plan, no variances hereto shall be permitted, nor shall any other
method exist to remove the prohibition set forth herein.

Sec. 4.10.01. Prohibited Development.

      The following development shall be prohibited:

      (a) Large Load Customers, specifically including all Data Centers. The

                                       Page 2 of 3
          definition(s) for “large load customers” and “data centers” shall be those
          set forth in Chapter 2026-65, Laws of Florida, and the Florida Statutes
          cited therein.

Sec. 4.10.02 -4.10.99. Reserved.

     CONFLICTS AND SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Ordinance is
determined by any Court to be invalid or otherwise found to be in conflict with any
other provision of law, the invalid portion shall be stricken, and such striking shall not
affect the validity of the remainder of this Ordinance. If any Court determines that
this Ordinance, or any portion hereof, cannot be legally applied to any individual(s),
group(s), entity(ies), or circumstance(s), such determination shall not affect the
applicability hereof to any individual, group, entity, property, or circumstance.

    EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall be effective immediately upon
adoption.

Passed and duly adopted in regujar session by the Board of County Commissioners of
Walton County, Florida, this Q         day of                 ’ 2026.

                                        BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                        OF WALTON COUNTY, FLORIDA
Attest:


Crystifl Sconiers, Clerk of the            Brad Drake, Chair
Circuit Court And Comptroller




                                        Page 3 of 3
