                                      City of Ormond Beach
                                    City Commission Agenda
                                            Staff Report



Agenda Date         July 28, 2026                          Item No       8.A.

Section             PUBLIC HEARINGS                        Category      Public Hearing -
                                                                         Ordinances

Subject             Eighteen-Month Moratorium on Data Centers

Recommended It is recommended that the City Commission approve the attached
Action      ordinance imposing a moratorium on all data centers for an eighteen-month
            period during which city staff will study and prepare necessary and
            appropriate amendments to the city’s Comprehensive Plan and Land
            Development Code to ban large-scale data centers or other types of large-
            load utility users, and to provide regulations for small facilities that may meet
            the definition of a data center for which regulations may be appropriate.

Strategic Goal      Governance - Other

Department          City Attorney
Staff Contact       Randy Hayes, City Attorney

Summary
This is a request for approval of an ordinance that will impose an eighteen-month moratorium on
all data center types, including large-scale data centers and other large load utility users, and
smaller facilities that may meet the technical definition of a data center (i.e., including the receipt,
processing, consideration, and approval of any application, order, permit, etc.)

Technology regarding data centers is rapidly changing. The operation of data centers creates
increasing demands for the use of scarce resources including land, water, electricity, etc. These
circumstances have made it difficult for local government jurisdictions throughout the state of
Florida to address the impacts that are created by data centers.

Senate Bill 484 (SB 484) was enacted by the 2026 Florida legislature in Chapter 2026-65, Laws
of Florida, which became effective as law on July 1, 2026. It expressly authorizes local
governments to regulate data centers, including the impacts from data centers. The regulations
may include a ban on all or various types of data centers. The regulations involve the use of land
which must therefore be made by amending the city’s Comprehensive Land Use Plan and Land
Development Code through the public hearing process. Like other local government jurisdictions,
neither the city’s Comprehensive Plan nor the Land Development Code address data centers,




                                                                                                   Page 445 of 554
regardless of size. If an application for a data center (regardless of type or size) was submitted
today, the application would require review and consideration as a special exception through the
public hearing process. A moratorium is necessary to make appropriate changes to the city’s
Comprehensive Plan and Land Development Regulations through the public process.

A data center is defined as “a facility that primarily contains electronic equipment used to process,
store, and transmit digital information, which may be: (a) A free-standing structure; or (b) A facility
within a larger structure which uses environmental control equipment to maintain the proper
conditions for the operation of electronic equipment.” Section 373.203(3), Fla. Stat. Data centers
generally fall into categories based on power capacity and facility size.

For instance, a large-scale data center is defined as a single location with a data center on site
that has an anticipated monthly peak load of 50 megawatts or more calculated as the highest
average load over a 15-minute interval. It does not include a load aggregated across multiple
locations owned by the same customer. However, it does include all customers or other entities
that have entered into a colocation or similar agreement at a single location that otherwise meets
the anticipated monthly peak load provided by law.

And large-load utility users are defined as customers with an anticipated monthly peak load of 50
megawatts or more, calculated as the highest average load over a 15-minute interval at a single
location. It does not include a load aggregated across multiple locations owned by the same
customer; however, it does include all customers or other entities that have entered into a
colocation or similar agreement at a single location that otherwise meets the anticipated monthly
peak load provided in this paragraph.

By comparison, micro and small-sized data centers typically store and process a single
organization’s data and are operated by that organization. Examples include banks that operate
micro and small-sized data centers. These uses are typically ancillary to the primary commercial
or office use on the site.

According to datacentermap.com, there are no existing data centers within the city of Ormond
Beach. However, the surrounding coastal area contains one existing data center and one
currently under construction. Lumen Daytona Beach 1 in Daytona Beach encompasses 10,000
square feet of total space, and the DC Blox project currently under construction in Palm Coast
received a building permit for a 33,760 square foot building.

It should be noted that Senate Bill 180 imposed what is commonly referred to as a blanket freeze
on a local government’s authority to propose or adopt more restrictive or burdensome
amendments to its land development code or comprehensive plan or generally related to
procedures for review, approval, or issuance of development through October 1, 2027. This
provision is in effect for the Florida counties listed in the Federal Disaster Declaration for
Hurricanes Debby (DR-4806), Helene (DR-4828), or Milton (DR-4834). Volusia County is a listed
county for Hurricanes Debby and Milton. However, SB 484 specifically allows local governments
to regulate data centers through changes to comprehensive plans and land development
regulations. Further evaluation will be conducted during the moratorium period to determine
whether there are any properties in the affected storm areas that may require an exception under
SB 180. The moratorium will extend to October 2027 to cover the date that SB 180 will expire.




                                                                                                  Page 446 of 554
Financial Impact
None

Citizen Impact
None

Attachments
1.     2026-11 - Data Center 18 Mo. Moritorium
2.     Data Center Moratorium Ordinance - Business Impact Estimate




                                                                     Page 447 of 554
                                  ORDINANCE NO. 2026-11

               AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ORMOND BEACH,
               FLORIDA, IMPOSING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM FOR
               EIGHTEEN MONTHS ON THE RECEIPT, CONSIDERATION
               OF APPLICATIONS OR ISSUANCE OF ANY BUILDING
               PERMITS, SITE PLAN APPROVALS, DEVELOPMENT
               ORDERS, DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS, SPECIAL
               EXCEPTION USES, CONDITIONAL USES, REZONINGS,
               AND COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS, AND ANY
               OTHER OFFICIAL ACTION THE CITY OF ORMOND BEACH
               ACTING BY AND THROUGH ITS ELECTED AND
               APPOINTED OFFICIALS AND THEIR DESIGNEES RELATED
               TO DATA CENTERS, LARGE SCALE DATA CENTERS AND
               OTHER LARGE LOAD UTILITY USERS; PROVIDING
               LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS; PROVIDING THE DURATION;
               PROVIDING    SEVERABILITY;     REPEALING    ALL
               ORDINANCES OR PARTS OF ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT
               HEREWITH; AND PROVIDING FOR AN EFFECTIVE DATE.

       WHEREAS, the City Commission has the authority pursuant to Chapter 166, Florida

Statutes, and Article VIII of the Florida Constitution to protect the public health, safety and

general welfare of its residents and to enact ordinances for valid governmental purposes

consistent with general or special law; and

       WHEREAS, Chapter Law 2026-65, creating Section 163.326, Florida Statutes,

specifically provides for the authority of the City Commission to regulate facilities with

substantial electrical, water, or other utility demands, such as data centers, large-scale data

centers, as defined in Sections 373.203(3) and (4), Florida Statutes, and other large load

customers, as defined in Section 366.043(2)(d), Florida Statutes, through comprehensive plans

and land development regulations; and

       WHEREAS, Section 373.262. Florida Statutes, provides it is the intent of the Florida

Legislature that the development of large-scale data centers in this state be managed under a


                                              -1-


                                                                                          Page 448 of 554
permitting framework that ensures this state’s water resources are used in the public interest, in a

manner that is not harmful to the water resources of this state, and consistent with local

government zoning regulations and comprehensive plans; and

       WHEREAS, the City of Ormond Beach is a coastal community that is nestled adjacent

to the Atlantic Ocean and relies upon groundwater resources from the Florida Aquifer system,

which is historically been subject to significant conservation efforts due to risks of saltwater

intrusion into local ground wells requiring effective resource management to protect the natural

water resources and quality of life for residents and visitors; and

       WHEREAS, the findings of the Florida Legislature provide large scale and hyperscale

data centers can consume 20 to 100 MW of electricity, equivalent of 15,000 to 75,000 U.S.

homes, with the water consumption equivalent to 2,600 homes, significantly impacting

environmental resources; and

       WHEREAS, such facilities potentially could have significant impacts on municipal

water supplies, waste-water treatment facilities, and demand for local electric utilities; and

       WHEREAS, local governments are authorized to enact moratoriums if the ordinance is

intended to preserve the status quo and is rationally related to the government’s attempt to enact

changes to development regulations. (WCI Communities Inc., v. City of Coral Springs, 885 So.

2d 912 (Fla. 4th DCA 2004)); and

       WHEREAS, Florida courts have held that a permissible basis for land use restrictions

include concerns about the effects from the proposed development on traffic, congestion,

surrounding property values, demand for public services, and on other aspects of the general




                                                 -2-


                                                                                                 Page 449 of 554
welfare (WCI Communities Inc., v. City of Coral Springs, 885 So. 2d 912 (Fla. 4th DCA 2004));

and

       WHEREAS, local governments are entitled to enact moratoriums as land-use tools to

promote effective planning and preserve the status quo while formulating a more permanent

development strategy (Tahoe-Sierra Pres. Council, Inc.,v. Tahoe Reg’l Planning Agency, 535

U.S. 302,337;122 S. Ct. 1465, 1487 (2002)); and

       WHEREAS, a temporary moratorium of eighteen (18) months on the submission and

acceptance of applications for building permits, site plans, development orders, development

agreements, special exception uses, conditional uses, rezonings, and comprehensive plan

amendments related to data centers, large scale data centers, and large load utility users within

the City of Ormond Beach is needed as the Office of Program Policy Analysis and Government

Accountability (OPPAGA) has until July 1, 2027 to submit a study to the Governor, the

President of the Senate, and the Speaker of House of Representatives, with included policy

recommendations on facility siting and mitigation measures that should be considered to reduce

any potential negative impacts. This report by OPPAGA will provide the City Commission the

opportunity to determine the appropriateness of allowing such uses and the adoption of

amendments to the City of Ormond Beach Comprehensive Plan, Land Development Code, and

Code of Ordinances, as may be required, to regulate or prohibit such uses; and

       WHEREAS, the Commission hereby desires to establish a temporary moratorium of

eighteen (18) months on the submission and acceptance of applications for building permits, site

plans, development orders, development agreements, special exception uses, conditional uses,

rezonings, and comprehensive plan amendments related to data centers, large scale data centers,


                                               -3-


                                                                                            Page 450 of 554
and large load utility users within the City and such moratorium is reasonable and necessary to

accomplish the goal of adopting reasonable regulations to ensure the protection of the

community’s natural resources and the public health, safety, and general welfare of residents.



       BE IT ENACTED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF ORMOND BEACH,

FLORIDA, THAT:

        SECTION ONE.          PURPOSE AND LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS

        The above recitals are hereby adopted as the legislative purpose of this Ordinance and as

the City Commission’s legislative findings.

        SECTION TWO.          TEMPORARY MORATORIUM IS HEREBY ORDERED AND

IMPOSED ON THE SUBMISSION AND ACCEPTANCE OF APPLICATIONS FOR

CONSIDERATION OR ISSUANCE OF ANY, BUILDING PERMITS, SITE PLAN

APPROVALS, DEVELOPMENT ORDERS, DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS, SPECIAL

EXCEPTION USES, CONDITIONAL USES, REZONINGS, AND COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

AMENDMENTS RELATED TO DATA CENTERS, LARGE SCALE DATA CENTERS, AND

LARGE LOAD UTILITY USERS WITHIN THE CITY OF ORMOND BEACH.

        All activities relating to the acceptance, review and action upon applications of

approvals for building permits, site plan approvals, development orders, development

agreements, special exception uses, conditional uses, rezonings and comprehensive plan

amendments related to data centers, large scale data centers, and large load utility users are

temporarily suspended in order for the City of Ormond Beach, through its officials and staff, to

have adequate time to research, study and determine the appropriate regulations for data centers,


                                               -4-


                                                                                             Page 451 of 554
large scale data centers and large load utility users. A moratorium is required to preserve the

status quo in the community pending the consideration of remedial legislation.

            During the time the temporary moratorium is in effect, the City will accept no

applications or act on any pending applications for permits, approvals for such activities or

facilities and no such new activities or facilities shall be permitted within the City. The City

shall return any funds accepted for pending applications for approvals, permits, or business tax

receipts.

        SECTION THREE. GEOGRAPHIC AREA COVERED.

        The temporary moratorium established in this Ordinance shall be effective in the

corporate and municipal boundaries of the City of Ormond Beach as the same exists and as may

be expanded by annexation.

        SECTION FOUR.         DURATION.

        (a)      The temporary moratorium set forth in this Ordinance shall take effect

immediately upon the effective date of this Ordinance and shall terminate eighteen (18) months

after said effective date. The City will accept no applications or act on pending applications

which are subject to the moratorium until the moratorium has expired.

        (b)      The City Commission may extend the temporary moratorium established in this

ordinance for additional periods not to exceed ninety (90) days per extension upon a finding by

the City Commission set forth in the ordinance that the issues giving rise to the need for the

temporary moratorium established herein continue to exist and that reasonable progress is being

made in carrying out a specific and prompt plan of corrective legislative action, and that

additional time is reasonably needed to adequately address the issues facing the City.


                                                -5-


                                                                                           Page 452 of 554
        SECTION FIVE.         SEVERABILITY.

        If any Section or portion of a Section of this Ordinance is determined by a court having

competent jurisdiction to be invalid, unlawful, or unconstitutional, such final judicial

determination shall not invalidate or impair the validity, force, or effect of any other Section or

part of this Ordinance.

        SECTION SIX.          REPEAL.

        All Ordinances or parts of Ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed to the

extent of such conflict.

        SECTION SEVEN. EFFECTIVE DATE.

        This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

        PASSED UPON at the first reading of the City Commission, this 28th day of July 2026.

        PASSED UPON at the second reading of the City Commission, this 25th day of August

2026.

                                                      _____________________________
                                                      JASON LESLIE
                                                      Mayor

ATTEST:


_________________________
SUSAN DAUDERIS
City Clerk




                                                -6-


                                                                                              Page 453 of 554
                                  Ordinance Adoption
                                Business Impact Estimate

Proposed ordinance’s number and legal title: 2026-11

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ORMOND BEACH, FLORIDA, IMPOSING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM FOR
EIGHTEEN MONTHS ON THE RECEIPT, CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATIONS OR ISSUANCE OF ANY BUILDING
PERMITS, SITE PLAN APPROVALS, DEVELOPMENT ORDERS, DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS, SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USES, CONDITIONAL USES, REZONINGS, AND COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS, AND ANY OTHER OFFICIAL
ACTION THE CITY OF ORMOND BEACH ACTING BY AND THROUGH ITS ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS AND
THEIR DESIGNEES RELATED TO DATA CENTERS, LARGE SCALE DATA CENTERS AND OTHER LARGE LOAD UTILITY
USERS; PROVIDING LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS; PROVIDING THE DURATION; PROVIDING SEVERABILITY; REPEALING
ALL ORDINANCES OR PARTS OF ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT HEREWITH; AND PROVIDING FOR AN EFFECTIVE DATE.

This Business Impact Estimate is provided in accordance with section 166.041(4), Florida Statutes. If
one or more boxes are checked below, this means the City is of the view that a business impact estimate
is not required by state law for the proposed ordinance, but the City is, nevertheless, providing this
Business Impact Estimate as a courtesy and to avoid any procedural issues that could impact the
enactment of the proposed ordinance. This Business Impact Estimate may be revised following its initial
posting.

☐      The proposed ordinance is required for compliance with Federal or State law or regulation;
☐      The proposed ordinance relates to the issuance or refinancing of debt;
☐      The proposed ordinance relates to the adoption of budgets or budget amendments, including
       revenue sources necessary to fund the budget;
☐      The proposed ordinance is required to implement a contract or an agreement, including, but not
       limited to, any Federal, State, local, or private grant or other financial assistance accepted by the
       municipal government;
☐      The proposed ordinance is an emergency ordinance;
☐      The ordinance relates to procurement; or
☐      The proposed ordinance is enacted to implement the following:
       a. Part II of Chapter 163, Florida Statutes, relating to growth policy, county and municipal
            planning, and land development regulation, including zoning, development orders,
            development agreements and development permits;
       b. Sections 190.005 and 190.046, Florida Statutes, regarding community development districts;
       c. Section 553.73, Florida Statutes, relating to the Florida Building Code; or
       d. Section 633.202, Florida Statutes, relating to the Florida Fire Prevention Code.

In accordance with the provisions of controlling law, even notwithstanding the fact that an
exemption noted above may apply, the City hereby publishes the following information:




                                                                                                 Page 454 of 554
1. A summary of the proposed ordinance, including a statement of the public purpose to be served by
   the proposed ordinance, such as serving the public health, safety, morals, and welfare of the City.


The purpose of this Ordinance is to impose an eighteen-month moratorium on all data center types,
including large-scale data centers and other large load utility users, and smaller facilities that may meet
the technical definition of a data center (i.e., including the receipt, processing, consideration, and
approval of any application, order, permit, etc.). This Ordinance will permit staff to properly evaluate and
address the impacts that are created by data centers.


2. An estimate of the direct economic impact of the proposed ordinance on private, for-profit businesses
   in the City, including the following, if any:

       a. An estimate of direct compliance costs that businesses may reasonably incur if the ordinance
          is enacted;
       N/A


       b. Identification of any new charge or fee on businesses subject to the proposed ordinance, or
          for which businesses will be financially responsible; and
       N/A


       c. An estimate of the City’s regulatory costs, including an estimate of revenues from any new
          charges or fees that will be imposed on businesses to cover such costs.
       N/A


3. A good faith estimate of the number of businesses likely to be impacted by the ordinance.
   N/A


4. Any additional information the City determines may be useful.

   (This section may include: methodology or data used to prepare the Business Impact Estimate, e.g., City staff
   solicited comments from businesses as to the potential impact of the proposed ordinance by contacting the
   chamber of commerce, social media posting, direct mail/email, posting on the City’s website, public workshop,
   etc.; efforts made to reduce the potential fiscal impact on businesses; and state the proposed ordinance is a
   generally applicable ordinance that applies to all persons similarly situated (individuals or businesses) and,
   therefore, the proposed ordinance does not affect only businesses.)




                                                                                                     Page 455 of 554
