                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2026-05

                   AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF COUNTY
                   COMMISSIONERS OF LEVY COUNTY, FLORIDA
                   MAKING     CERTAIN     FINDINGS;    PROVIDING
                   DEFINITIONS;   DECLARING     A     TEMPORARY
                   MORATORIUM ON THE ACCEPTANCE, REVIEW,
                   PROCESSING, OR APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS FOR
                   DEVELOPMENT    PERMITS    AND    DEVELOPMENT
                   ORDERS FOR DATA CENTER FACILITIES; PROVIDING
                   FOR NO EFFECT ON EXISTING DEVELOPMENT
                   APPROVALS; PROVIDING FOR THE AREA OF
                   APPLICABILITY; PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY;
                   AND PROVIDING FOR AN EFFECTIVE DATE.

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Article VIII, Section 1(f) of the Florida Constitution and section
125.66, Florida Statutes, Levy County (the “County”) possesses the authority to enact ordinances
to protect the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens; and

       WHEREAS, on June 30, 2026, the Board of County Commissioners (“Board”)
directed the County Attorney to prepare an ordinance instituting a temporary moratorium on
the acceptance, review, processing, or approval of applications for development permits and
development orders for data center facilities; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Chapter 2026-65, Laws of Florida, enacted by the Florida
Legislature, effective on July 1, 2026, “[t]he Legislature finds that certain land uses, including
facilities with substantial electric or other utility demands, such as data centers and other large load
customers . . . may present unique planning, infrastructure, and compatibility considerations,” and
“that such considerations shall be addressed through local comprehensive planning and land
development regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter, including provisions related to
infrastructure capacity, land use compatibility, environmental impacts, and the efficient provision
of public facilities and services;” and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Chapter 2026-65, Laws of Florida, “[l]ocal governments shall
maintain the authority to exercise the powers and responsibilities for comprehensive planning and
land development regulation granted by law with respect to large load customers,” such as data
centers; and

       WHEREAS, local governments may enact moratoriums if the moratorium is intended to
preserve the status quo and is rationally related to the government’s attempt to enact changes to
development regulations. WCI Communities Inc. v. City of Coral Springs, 885 So. 2d 912 (Fla. 4th
DCA 2004); and

         WHEREAS, state and regional planning efforts emphasize the importance of careful

                                                   1
4935-1874-8358.2
management of groundwater withdrawals and coastal water resources to ensure long-term
environmental and economic stability for coastal communities; and

       WHEREAS, data center facilities are known to require substantial water resources for
cooling systems and substantial electrical power to support continuous computing operations,
which in some cases require infrastructure demands comparable to small municipalities; and

       WHEREAS, data center facilities have the potential to place significant demands on
regional groundwater supplies, water treatment infrastructure, and electrical grid capacity;
and

         WHEREAS, the Board hereby finds that the County currently lacks specific land use
provisions or development regulations addressing the unique operational characteristics,
infrastructure requirements, and environmental considerations associated with data center
facilities; and

       WHEREAS, the Board further finds that allowing such data center facilities to
proceed without appropriate regulatory standards could create risks to the County’s water
resources, electrical infrastructure capacity, land use planning objectives, and long-term
community development strategy; and

        WHEREAS, imposing a temporary moratorium on the County’s acceptance of
applications for, the processing and review of, and the issuance of development orders and
development permits for data center facilities will allow time for the County to review, study, hold
public hearings, prepare, and consider proposed revisions to the land development code and
comprehensive plan in order to ensure that data centers are properly regulated within the County
in a manner which furthers the compatibility of land uses, protection of the environment and
natural resources of the County, and sound land use planning principles; and

        WHEREAS, the adoption of this Ordinance is undertaken in good faith and is intended to
further the goals of the Comprehensive Plan and the comprehensive planning process set forth in
Chapter 163, Florida Statutes; and

        WHEREAS, adoption of this Ordinance will further the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of Levy County.

      NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Board of County Commissioners of Levy
County, Florida, as follows:

       SECTION 1.             INCORPORATION OF RECITALS. The above recitals are true
and correct and are hereby incorporated by reference.




                                                 2
4935-1874-8358.2
        SECTION 2.             DEFINITIONS. As used in this Ordinance, the following terms
shall have the meanings set forth below. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, defined
terms include their plural and singular forms.

“Data Center Facility” shall mean a building, a dedicated space within a building, or group of
buildings housing computer systems and associated components, such as telecommunication and
data processing systems, to be used for remote storage, processing, or distribution of large amounts
of data. Examples of such data, include but are not limited to, computationally intensive
applications such as cryptocurrency mining, artificial intelligence (A.I.) computing, weather
modeling, genome sequencing, application hosting, cloud storage, video and technical streaming
services, etc. Such facilities may include air handlers, power generators, water cooling and storage
facilities, utility substations, and other infrastructure to support operations. The term shall not
include server rooms and computer rooms typically used to house IT and related network
equipment located internally to a building where such rooms are incidental to the primary use in
the building or on the site.

“Development Order” shall have the meaning provided in Section 163.3164(15), Florida Statutes.

“Development Permit” shall have the meaning provided in Section 163.3164(16), Florida Statutes.

         SECTION 3.           TEMPORARY MORATORIUM IMPOSED.

       A.      The County hereby imposes a temporary moratorium on the acceptance of
applications for, the processing and review of, and the issuance and/or approval of Development
Orders and Development Permits for Data Center Facilities.

        B.     The temporary moratorium on Data Center Facilities imposed pursuant to this
Ordinance shall remain in effect for a period of twelve (12) months from and including the
effective date of this Ordinance or until the effective date of an ordinance amending the Levy
County Land Development Code and/or the Code of Ordinances relating to Data Center Facilities,
or until such time as repealed by the Board, whichever occurs first. The moratorium may be
extended by subsequent ordinance adopted by the Board to the extent permitted by law.

        C.      During the moratorium period, Levy County staff shall conduct a comprehensive
review of the potential impacts associated with Data Center Facilities. Following the completion
of the review process, County staff shall present best practices and make final recommendations
to the Board regarding the adoption of appropriate zoning regulations, permitting requirements,
infrastructure standards, and environmental safeguards governing Data Center Facilities.

       SECTION 4.           EXISTING DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS. The moratorium
imposed pursuant to this Ordinance shall not affect the validity of any existing Development
Permits or Development Orders obtained prior to the effective date of this Ordinance.



                                                 3
4935-1874-8358.2
       SECTION 5.            APPLICABILITY. This Ordinance shall be applicable in the
unincorporated areas of Levy County.

        SECTION 6.            SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, or provision of this Ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or provision
shall be deemed severable and shall not be construed to render the remaining provisions of this
Ordinance invalid or unconstitutional.

        SECTION 7.             EFFECTIVE DATE. A certified copy of this Ordinance shall be
filed by the Clerk with the Department of State within 10 days after its enactment by the Board
and shall be effective upon filing with the Department of State.

      PASSED AND DULY ENACTED by the Board of County Commissioners of Levy
County, Florida in regular session, this day of              , 2026.

                                                    BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                                    OF LEVY COUNTY, FLORIDA




                                                    Tim Hodge, Chair

ATTEST:


Clerk of the Circuit Court
Matt Brooks

APPROVED AS TO FORM:



Ray Poole
County Attorney




                                               4
4935-1874-8358.2
