                TOWN OF GRAY ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING
              A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON DATA CENTERS
                                  Enacted August 18, 2026

Section 1. Title; Authority.

This ordinance, duly enacted by the Town Council of the Town of Gray, Maine
(the “Town”) pursuant to Article II, Section 14 of the Town Charter, is referred to herein
as the “Moratorium Ordinance.” This Moratorium Ordinance is adopted pursuant to
Article VIII, Part Second, of the Maine Constitution, 30-A M.R.S. § 3001, 30-A M.R.S.
§ 4356, and any other enabling statutes and laws.

Section 2. Necessity.

The Town makes the following findings:

A. There is increasing interest within or surrounding the Town in the siting and
   development of large-scale data center facilities used for the processing, storage, and
   transmission of vast amounts of digital data, which rely on extensive equipment,
   systems, and environmental controls to maintain suitable conditions for their
   operations (“Data Centers”).

B. Such Data Centers are on a scale larger than previously contemplated by the Town or
   the State, and there is a strong likelihood of continued development pressure for Data
   Centers, including within and surrounding the Town, due to regional and national
   demand.

C. The Town’s comprehensive plan, ordinances, regulations, and policies are inadequate
   to prevent serious public harm that could result from the siting, installation,
   operation, and decommissioning of Data Centers within the Town.

D. In particular, without appropriate local regulation, the siting, installation, operation,
   and decommissioning of Data Centers within the Town raise legitimate and
   substantial questions about the impact of such facilities on the Town, including but
   not limited to:

   (i)   Whether Data Centers are compatible with existing and permitted land uses
         within the Town;

   (ii) Whether Data Centers can be appropriately located and regulated to avoid or
        minimize potential adverse impacts from the noise, heat, emissions, and other
        nuisance conditions that may be associated with Data Centers and their extensive
        machinery, systems, and environmental controls;

   (iii) Whether Data Centers can be located to avoid or minimize adverse
         environmental effects and visual impacts;
   (iv) Whether Data Centers will result in a shortage or overburdening of public
        facilities including local water supplies, roads, waste management systems, and
        other public infrastructure;

   (v) Whether existing regulatory and financial assurances, if any, are adequate to
       ensure that such development will be properly sited, constructed, operated, and
       decommissioned; and

   (v) Whether excessive land and water resources will be devoted to this emerging use
       to the detriment of surrounding properties, natural resources, and other existing
       and permitted uses.

E. As a result, the siting, installation, operation, and decommissioning of Data Centers
   within the Town has the potential to overburden public facilities and poses a serious
   threat to the health, safety, and welfare of the Town and its residents and visitors.

F. The Town needs time to evaluate the impacts of and prepare reasonable ordinances
   and regulations governing the siting, installation, operation, and decommissioning of
   Data Centers within the Town.

G. The Town, with assistance from its municipal reviewing authority and other
   departments, intends to study its plans, ordinances, regulations, and policies to
   determine the effects of siting, installing, operating, and decommissioning Data
   Centers within the Town and to consider what additional or different ordinance
   provisions and regulations, if any, are appropriate for such development.

H. It is anticipated that such study, review, and preparation of plans, ordinances,
   regulations, and policies will take no more than 180 days from the Date of Applicability
   of this Moratorium Ordinance.

Section 3. Definitions.

As used in this Moratorium Ordinance, the following terms have the following meanings:

A. “Data Center” means any building, structure, facility, equipment, or portion or
   combination thereof, that (1) is primarily designed, constructed, operated, or occupied
   for the processing, storage, management, mining, hosting, or distribution of large
   loads of digital data, artificial intelligence operations, blockchain operations,
   cryptocurrency mining, cloud computing, colocation services, enterprise services, or
   similar high-intensity computational activities; and (2) has an aggregate Data Center
   Area of 50,000 square feet or greater. The term “Data Center” includes but is not
   limited to hyperscale data centers, enterprise data centers, colocation facilities, edge
   computing facilities, artificial intelligence computing facilities, and cryptocurrency
   mining operations, whether operated as a principal use or accessory use.
B. “Data Center Area” means the gross floor area occupied by (1) any building,
   structure, facility, equipment, or portion or combination thereof, that contains the
   physical computing equipment comprising a Data Center, including but not limited to
   routers, graphics processing units (GPUs), switches, servers, high-density computing
   systems, storage systems, and other electronic and computing equipment; the physical
   infrastructure housing such equipment, such as data center racks and server cabinets;
   and any inter-equipment space and corridors used for cooling and maintenance of the
   physical computing equipment; and (2) any other impervious surfaces associated with
   a Data Center, including but not limited to access ways, parking lots, transmission
   corridors, and any accessory buildings or structures.

Section 4. Moratorium.

The Town does hereby declare a moratorium on (i) the siting, installation, construction,
establishment, or operation of any Data Center, or the expansion of any existing facility
or operation so as to render it a Data Center; (ii) the acceptance of, processing of, or acting
upon any application, proposal, petition, or request pending on or after the Date of
Applicability for any new or expanded Data Center; and (iii) the issuance of any
development permit, license, or other regulatory approval or any other action or decision
of a board, officer, official, employee, agent or department of the Town (including but not
limited to a building permit, certificate of occupancy, site plan review, conditional use, or
business license) related to any new or expanded Data Center (“Moratorium”).

Section 5. Retroactive Application; Duration.

This Moratorium Ordinance is expressly intended to and shall have retroactive effect.
Notwithstanding 1 M.R.S. § 302 or any other law to the contrary, and regardless of its
effective date, this Moratorium Ordinance shall govern and apply to all proceedings and
applications for Data Centers that were or are pending before the Town at any time on or
after July 14, 2026 (the “Date of Applicability”) and, to the extent allowed by 30-A
M.R.S. § 3007(6), shall nullify any final permit, license, or other approval of a new or
expanded Data Center issued by a municipal reviewing authority within 45 days of the
effective date.

This Moratorium shall remain in full force and effect for a period of 180 days from the
Date of Applicability, unless extended, repealed, or modified in accordance with
applicable law.

Section 6. Enforcement, Violations and Penalties.

This Moratorium Ordinance shall be enforced by the Code Enforcement Officer of the
Town. Any person who violates any provision of this Moratorium Ordinance shall be
subject to civil penalties and other remedies as provided in 30-A M.R.S. § 4452.
Section 7. Conflicts; Severability.

Any provisions of the Town’s ordinances that are inconsistent with or conflict with the
provisions of this Moratorium Ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent applicable for
the duration of the Moratorium. Should any section or provision of this Ordinance be
declared by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such a decision shall not
invalidate any other section or provision.
