                                   MEETING NOTICE
The regular monthly meeting of the Ellsworth City Council will be held on Monday, August 17,
               2026, at 6:00 PM in the Ellsworth City Hall Council Chambers

Meetings will be broadcast live on:

YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/@CityofEllsworthMaine
Public Access/Spectrum Channels 5 and 7

                                        AGENDA
   1. Call to Order.

   2. Pledge of Allegiance.

   3. Rules of Order.

   4. Adoption of the Ellsworth City Council minutes from the following meeting:
         ▪ July 20, 2026, Special Meeting

   5. Presentation of Awards.
         ▪ Frank Pierson – 30 years of service on the Harbor Commission
         ▪ Chad Wilmot – 25 years of service
         ▪ Joshua Steward – 10 years of service

   6. City Manager’s Report.

   7. Committee Reports.
        ▪ Arbor Commission: Request to appoint Danielle Gift as a member of the
           commission with a term expiring 6/30/2027.
        ▪ Solid Waste Committee: Request to appoint Andrew McCullough, Kert Clark and
           Amanda Dioszeghy, recommended by the Public Works Director.

   8. Citizen’s Comments.

   9. Councilor Comments.


UNFINISHED BUSINESS


CONSENT AGENDA

CONSENT AGENDA: All items with an asterisk (*) are considered to be routine and will be
enacted by one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a Council
member so requests, in which event, the item will be removed from the Consent Agenda and
considered in its normal sequence on the agenda.



                                             1


  10. Council Order #0802600, Request of the Deputy City Clerk to hold a City of Ellsworth
      General Municipal Election on November 3, 2026.

NEW BUSINESS


  11. Public Hearing and action on the application(s) for renewal for the following license(s):
         ▪ Jennifer Wing Goodrich d/b/a Pepper’s Pub, 20 Water Street, for renewal of a City
             Class B License (Amusement, Victualer & Liquor) and renewal of a State Class A
             Restaurant/Lounge Liquor License.
         ▪ Aargh Inc d/b/a Pat’s Pizza, 396 High Street, for renewal of a City Class B License
             (Amusement, Victualer and Liquor) and renewal of a State Restaurant (Class I, II,
             III & IV) Malt, Spirituous and Vinous Liquor License.
         ▪ Wal-mart Stores East, LP #1932 d/b/a Walmart #1932, 17 Myrick Street, for
             renewal of a City Class C License (Victualer and Liquor) and renewal of a State
             Off-Premise Beer & Wine License.

  12. Council Order #082601, Public Hearing and potential action on a moratorium on RV Parks
      in the City of Ellsworth (Sponsored by Councilor White).

  13. Council Order #082602, City Seal update.

  14. Council Order #082603, Public Hearing and potential action on a moratorium on Data
      Centers in the City of Ellsworth.

  15. Executive Session for consultation with attorney regarding City’s legal rights and duties
      under 1 MRS sec 405(6)(E).

  16. Adjournment.




                                             2


City of Ellsworth Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Date: July 20, 2026
Time: 6:00 PM
Location: City Hall Council Chambers

1. Call to Order: Councilor Lyons called the regular monthly meeting of the Ellsworth City
Council to order at 6:00 PM.

2. Pledge of Allegiance: The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

3. Rules of Order: The Council proceeded under the previously adopted Robert’s Rules of Order.

4. Adoption of Minutes: The Council reviewed the minutes from the June 15, 2026, Regular
Meeting and the July 7, 2026, Special Meeting.
    • Motion: To accept the minutes as written.
    • Moved by: Councilor N. Smith; Seconded by: Councilor White.
    • Result: Passed Unanimously.


5. Presentation of Awards
    • Frank Pierson: Recognition for 30 years of service on the Harbor Commission was
       postponed due to illness.
    • EL Shea Proclamation: State Senator Nicole Grohoski and State Representative Russ
       White presented a state proclamation recognizing the 100th anniversary of EL Shea. The
       City Council read and presented a city proclamation honoring the company’s century of
       service and investment in Ellsworth.

6. City Manager’s Report: Deputy City Manager Sara delivered the report on behalf of Charlie,
who was traveling. Key highlights included:
    • Growth in housing, hotels, and businesses.
    • Completion of the Hancock Judicial Center groundbreaking and new courthouse road.
    • The splash pad opened on schedule; tax bills are on track to be mailed early.
    • Introduction of Chris Nemeth as the new Finance Director.
    • Acknowledgment of delays in cemetery mowing and crosswalk striping.
    • Clean-up of a two-gallon oil release near the Branch Lake Watershed is complete.
    • Nomination papers availability starting July 23rd.
    • Customer-facing services are being relocated to the first floor of City Hall for better
        accessibility.

7. Committee Reports: Councilor M. Smith reported vacancies on the Recreation Commission
and the Harbor Commission, encouraging residents to get involved.



                                               3


8. Citizen’s Comments:
    • Dottie Vachon: Updated the Council on the newly formed Cemetery Commission,
        including work on a new ordinance, scanning records, and the maintenance of Juniper
        Cemetery.
    • Kelvin Mote: Shared his personal experience regarding a tragedy on Graham Lake and
        urged the Council to approve the fire department’s request for a boat.
    • Dr. Ruth Moore: Expressed concerns regarding the vetting of the new Finance Director,
        property tax assessments for veterans, and the residency of the City Manager. She called
        for the resignation of leadership due to city mismanagement. (Chair Lyons ended her
        comments at five minutes).

9. Councilor Comments:
    • Councilor M. Smith: Reflected on a challenging first year in office and reaffirmed her
      commitment to serving residents.
    • Councilor O’Halloran: Suggested holding a "free citizens night" workshop in October to
      allow for more dialogue between the Council and residents.
    • Councilor N. Smith: Elaborated on the Cemetery Commission’s work, including map
      confirmation and updating veterans' grave lists.
    • Councilor Shea: Emphasized the need for the city to focus on "pumping the brakes" on
      new ideas to focus on maintenance and public safety.
    • Councilor Martineau: Addressed misinformation regarding her role in historic
      preservation and expressed openness to a workshop format if it avoided "muddying the
      waters".
    • Councilor Lyons: Addressed the failed recall efforts, citing them as a waste of city
      resources based on misinformation. He called for a return to civility and respect in
      community discourse.

Unfinished Business:
10. Council Order #062603, Recreation Commission Presentation: Eric Marichal was unable
to attend; the matter was tabled.
    • Motion: To table the presentation.
    • Moved by: Councilor N. Smith; Seconded by: Councilor Martineau.
    • Result: Passed Unanimously.


11. Council Order #062611, Grader Repairs: Public Works Director Mike Harris and Highway
Superintendent Brian Moon discussed repairing the city's 2009 grader. While a new grader was
discussed, staff recommended a full rebuild to gain another 10 years of use.
    • Public Comments: None.




                                               4


   •   Motion: Authorize the City Manager to execute repairs by Chadwick-BaRoss in an amount
       not to exceed $157,585.39, funded through equipment reserves and the highway budget.
   •   Moved by: Councilor Shea; Seconded by: Councilor M. Smith.
   •   Result: Passed 6-1 (Councilor O'Halloran opposed).

12. Business License Renewals: Renewals for Lakeside Cedar Cabins, Ellsworth Lodge of Elks
#2743, Taste Jamaica, LLC, Helen’s Restaurant, and Fogtown Brewing Company.
    • Public Comments:
           o Dr. Ruth Moore: Raised safety concerns about watercraft at Lakeside Cedar
               Cabins and recommended specific sonar equipment for the new fire boat.
           o Raymond Williams: Opposed Fogtown Brewing's license, arguing it required a
               "special amusement permit" under specific ordinances.
    • Council Discussion: Staff clarified that all inspections were signed off and that the licenses
       were consistent with historical issuance since 2017.
    • Motion: To approve the business license renewals as presented.
    • Moved by: Councilor N. Smith; Seconded by: Councilor Martineau.
    • Result: Passed Unanimously.


13. Council Order #072600, Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) Discussion: Deputy City
Manager Sara presented the FY27 Phase 1 priorities, including core network switches, local road
improvements (Maple St, Gary Moore Rd, etc.), the courthouse road, and sidewalk repairs.
Discussion followed regarding the City Hall seal and the long-term funding strategy involving
bond packages.
   • Motion: No action taken; discussion only.


14. Council Order #072601, Maine Office of Tourism (MOT) Grant Presentation: Cara
Romano (Heart of Ellsworth) and Twila Fisher (Economic Development) presented the completed
"Discover Ellsworth" project, which produced a website, branding, and a wayfinding framework.
They discussed a potential Phase 2 grant for signage and a tourism development district.

15. Council Order #072602, Tax Assessment Update: Larry Gardner and Josh Barry (Municipal
Consulting Group) reported that final values were reached on July 13. Waterfront values remained
stable, and a 3% across-the-board increase was applied to all properties. The new tax rate is set at
16.25.

16. Council Order #072603, Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Redesign Report: Consultant
Reagan LaRochelle presented recommendations to maximize TIF revenue by offsetting general
fund costs and extending the Leonard Lake TIF to 30 years to support Knowlton Park and Moore
Center projects.




                                                 5


17. Council Order #072604, Tax-Acquired Properties Discussion: Tax Collector Sue McLean
presented a list of foreclosed properties to be listed with a realtor as required by state law. Council
discussed holding 16 Central Street for potential use as a park.
    • Motion: Authorize staff to proceed with listing the identified properties with Better Homes
       and Gardens Real Estate the Masiello Group.
    • Moved by: Councilor Lyons; Seconded by: Councilor Martineau.
    • Result: Passed Unanimously.


18. Council Order #072605, Appointment of Finance Director: Deputy City Manager Sara
Devlin addressed concerns from public comments, clarifying that 64 applicants were vetted and
no CPAs with municipal experience applied. Staff unanimously supported Chris Nemeth.
    • Motion: To appoint Chris Nemeth as Finance Director effective July 31, 2026.
    • Moved by: Councilor N. Smith; Seconded by: Councilor Martineau.
    • Result: Passed 6-1 (Councilor O'Halloran opposed).


19. Council Order #072606, Fire Department Replacement Boat: Chief Scott Guillerault
requested $85,000 for a rescue boat, noting the current boat has been out of service since
September 2025 and delays in response times have occurred.
    • Public Comments: None.
    • Motion: Authorize the purchase of a rescue boat and associated equipment through
       Sourcewell in an amount not to exceed $85,000.
    • Moved by: Councilor M. Smith; Seconded by: Councilor O’Halloran.
    • Result: Passed Unanimously.


20. Council Order #072607, Appointment of Tree Warden: The Council discussed reassigning
the role to Roddy Ehrlenbach.
    • Motion: To approve the reassignment of the Tree Warden role to Roddy Ehrlenbach.
    • Moved by: Councilor White; Seconded by: Councilor N. Smith.
    • Result: Passed Unanimously.


21. Council Order #072608, August City Council Meeting Date: Councilor Lyons proposed
moving the August 17 meeting to accommodate travel, but Councilors Shea and O’Halloran noted
scheduling conflicts with the proposed alternatives.
    • Result: No motion made; the meeting will remain on August 17.


22. Council Order #072609, Proposed Anchor In Campground: City Planner Brittany Merrill
provided a status update on the 28-site RV campground proposal on Bayside Road.
    • Public Comments:




                                                  6


          o    Kelly Brackett, Wyatt Braun, Amy Faber, Tim Mangan, Casey Stofflet, Patty Kelly,
               Kim Smallidge, Glenn Smallidge, Michael Kintos, Kristen Braun, Alfred Faber,
               and Clark Harris spoke in opposition.
           o Concerns included compatibility with the rural neighborhood, traffic safety on
               Bayside Road, groundwater impacts, and a lack of buffering. Many residents
               requested a moratorium until city ordinances are aligned with the new
               Comprehensive Plan.
   •   Council Discussion: Councilor Lyons confirmed there was no action for the Council
       tonight, as the matter is before the Planning Board for a September 2 meeting. Staff will
       explore reconvening the Comprehensive Plan Steering Committee.

23. Adjournment:
    • Motion: To adjourn.
    • Moved by: Councilor Martineau; Seconded by: Councilor Shea.
    • Result: Passed Unanimously.




                                               7


CITY OF ELLSWORTH, MAINE
Arbor Commission

TO: City Council
FROM: Arbor Commission
DATE: August 17, 2026
SUBJECT: Appointment of Danielle Gift to the Commission



 SUGGESTED MOTION:             Move to approve the request of the Arbor Commission to appoint Danielle
                               Gift as a member of the commission with a term expiring 6/30/2027.

 BACKGROUND                    The Arbor Commission has a vacancy and would like to recommend adding
                               Danielle Gift as a new member. Her appointment would be until 6/30/2027
                               to be in line with all the current terms, until the commission sets their
                               membership guidelines.

                               Here is a note from Danielle:

                               Dear City Council Members,

                               I am writing to express my interest in being appointed to the Ellsworth Arbor
                               Commission. As a forestry professional with extensive experience in urban
                               and community forestry, I am passionate about promoting healthy, resilient
                               tree canopies and supporting the many environmental, economic, and
                               community benefits that trees provide.

                               I would welcome the opportunity to contribute my expertise and collaborate
                               with fellow commission members to advance Ellsworth’s tree-related goals
                               and enhance the quality of life for residents.

                               Thank you for your consideration. I would be honored to serve the City of
                               Ellsworth in this capacity.
                               Sincerely,
                               Danielle Gift




                                                    8


CITY OF ELLSWORTH, MAINE



TO: Ellsworth City Council
FROM: Mike Harris, Public Works Director
DATE: August 6, 2026
SUBJECT: Appointment to the Solid Waste Committee




 SUGGESTED MOTION:               Move to approve the appointments of Andrew McCullough, Kert Clark, and
                                 Amanda Dioszeghy to the Solid Waste Committee.


 BACKGROUND                      I respectfully request that the City Council appoint the following individuals to
                                 serve on the Solid Waste Committee:

                                     •     Andrew McCullough
                                     •     Kert Clark
                                     •     Amanda Dioszeghy

                                 These appointments will help support the work of the Solid Waste Committee and
                                 ensure continued community participation in matters related to solid waste
                                 management.


                                 Thank you for your consideration.

                                 Mike Harris

                                 Public Works Director




Attachments: n/a
CC: n/a




                                                         9


CITY OF ELLSWORTH, MAINE
Social Services, thowes@ellsworthmaine.gov

TO: City Council
FROM: KaTina Vanadestine
DATE: 07/20/2026
SUBJECT: Date Proposal for the City of Ellsworth General Municipal Election




 SUGGESTED MOTION:                 Resolved to approve the request of the Deputy City Clerk to hold a City of
                                   Ellsworth General Municipal Election November 3rd, 2026.



 SUMMARY / PURPOSE                 I am writing to propose the scheduling of the General Municipal Election for
                                   the City of Ellsworth, in accordance with the city’s charter.

                                   The proposed date is strategically chosen to align with state elections and to
                                   maintain consistency with past practices. This timing will help ensure greater
                                   efficiency in the voting process, maximize voter participation, and streamline
                                   the use of resources.




Attachments:
CC: Charles Pearce, City Manager




                                                         10


CITY OF ELLSWORTH, MAINE
City Clerk’s Office


TO: City Council Members
FROM: Ebony Kramp-Dowling, Deputy City Clerk
DATE: August 17, 2026
SUBJECT: Business License Renewals




 SUGGESTED MOTION:             Move to approve the Business License renewals as presented.


 BACKGROUND                    Before Council approval, each business owner must pay the renewal fee, settle all
                               applicable personal property taxes, and complete inspections by Code
                               Enforcement and the Fire Inspector. If any requirement is unmet, the license is
                               postponed until the following month.

                               All licensing fees have been paid, inspections done and licensed signed off on by all
                               required departments.




                                                      11


City of Ellsworth

One City Hall Plaza
Ellsworth ME 04605

Business License Renewal Form

PEPPERS PUB
JENNIFER A WING GOODRICH

20 WATER STREET
ELLSWORTH ME 04605 Ellsworth
The FRIENDLY CITY

Please review the information we have on record, for your business. Make note of any changes or corrections, return the
signed application, along with your payment to the City Office (address shown above) as soon as possible for quick
processing and to avoid lapse in license. If you have any questions call 207-669-6680.

If you are no longer in business. please check this box and return the form. CL]

Sensetir
Business Name: JENNIFER AWING GOODRICH DBA: PEPPERS PUB

Business Address: 20 WATER STREET

Business Phone: | Business Email:

Mailing Address: 20 WATER STREET, ELLSWORTH ME 04605

Account Number: 95

Jewett
Owner Name: WING-GOOBRIGH JENNIFER A Owner Phone:
Owner Address: 20 WATER STREET, ELLSWORTH ME 04605

Fees Fee Based On Quantity Amount
$95.00 per year $ 95.00
$100 Public Hearing Notice Fee $ 100.00

Total License Fees: $ 195.00

Fees are due upon receipt. Payments can be made via cash or check, or by using a credit or debit card. Use of
credit or debit will incur a consumer fee. You can mail your renewal and fees to City Clerk, 1 City Hall Plaza,

Ellsworth, ME 04605.

Fees due before new license will be issued Current License expires on 08/31/2026

All applications and remittances are accepted subject to audit and approval and do not constitute a license to do business. The
foregoing information is correct to the best to my knowledge. The applicant hereby acknowledges his responsibility to maintain the
business in compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances.

Signature ~ Print Name Date a
P return signed application a aym he Cit Eliswort
Office Use Only: Date Received: Ave Receipt No: 22.-OOSS6e 47d

12



City of Ellsworth

One City Hall Plaza
Ellsworth ME 04605

ss Li R r

PATS PIZZA
AARGH INC

PO BOX 1016
ELLSWORTH ME 04605 Ellsworth
he FRIENDLY CITY

Please review the information we have on record, for your business. Make note of any changes or corrections, return the
signed application, along with your payment to the City Office (address shown above) as soon as possible for quick
processing and to avoid lapse in license. If you have any questions call 207-669-6680.

Account Number: 104
Business Name: AARGH INC DBA: PATS PIZZA

Business Address: 396 HIGH STREET

Business Phone: | Business Email}
Mailing Address: PO BOX 1016, ELLSWORTH ME 04605

Owner Name: NASBERG GERALD A TRUSTEE Owner Phone:
Owner Address: PO BOX 1016, ELLSWORTH ME 04605

Fees Fee Based On Quantity Amount
$95.00 per year 4 $ 95.00
$100 Public Hearing Notice Fee 1 $ 100.00

Total License Fees: $ 195.00

Fees are due upon receipt. Payments can be made via cash or check, or by using a credit or debit card. Use of
credit or debit will incur a consumer fee. You can mail your renewal and fees to City Clerk, 1 City Hall Plaza,

Ellsworth, ME 04605.

Fees due before new license will be issued Current License expires on 08/31/2026

All applications and remittances are accepted subject to audit and approval and do not constitute a license to do business. The
foregoing information is correct to the best to my knowledge. The applicant hereby acknowledges his responsibility to maintain the

business in compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances.

Gena NianG ree Ro
ate

Signature Print Name
Please return signed lication and ment to the City of Ellsw
a a | aT SC - 4 RAR ARSED _
Office Use Only: Date Received: ~/ | ZY | By, : __ Receipt No: O24: CU 414 _ |

13


Docusign Envelope ID: AE52B6E1-D613-8D24-8177-C1D150C4C042

City of Ellsworth

One City Hall Plaza
Ellsworth ME 04605

Business License Renewal Form

WALMART #1932

WAL-MART STORES EAST, LP #1932

ATTN: JULENE STOUT

702 SW 8TH STREET Ellsworth
BENTONVILLE AR 72716-0500 The FRIENDLY CITY

Please review the information we have on record, for your business. Make note of any changes or corrections, return the
signed application, along with your payment to the City Office (address shown above) as soon as possible for quick
processing and to avoid lapse in license. If you have any questions call 207-669-6680.

uaren in busi ase che: i and the form. (_]

Account Number: 100
Business Name: WAL-MART STORES EAST, LP #1932 DBA: WALMART #1932

Business Address: 17 MYRICK STREET
Business Phone: | Business Email:

Mailing Address: ATTN: JULENE STOUT, BENTONVILLE AR 72716-0500
Owner Name: WALMART REAL ESTATE BUSINESS TRUST Owner Phone:
Owner Address: PO BOX 8050, BENTONVILLE AR 72716-0555

Fees Fee Based On Quantity Amount
$150.00 per Year 1 $ 150.00
$100 Public Hearing Notice Fee 4 $ 100.00

Total License Fees: $ 250.00

Fees are due upon receipt. Payments can be made via cash or check, or by using a credit or debit card. Use of
credit or debit will incur a consumer fee. You can mail your renewal and fees to City Clerk, 1 City Halt Plaza,

Ellsworth, ME 04605.
Fees due before new license will be issued Current License expires on 08/31/2026

All applications and remittances are accepted subject to audit and approval and do not constitute a license to do business. The
foregoing information is correct to the best to my knowledge. The applicant hereby acknowledges his responsibility to maintain the
business in compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances.

| Sarah Little, Assistant Secretary July 30, 2026 | 13:17 PDT
Signature 7 Print Name 7 Date -
sign icati he Ci Ww
Office Use Only: Date Received: i) | 4 | Zhe Receipt No: 32. OOOONDHY A>

14


CITY OF ELLSWORTH, MAINE
OFFICE OF THE CITY MANAGER


TO: Ellsworth City Council
FROM: Charlie Pearce, City Manager
DATE: August 13, 2026
SUBJECT: Anchor In Campground Application and Potential Moratorium on RV Campgrounds




Purpose and Recommendation
The purpose of this memorandum is to provide the City Council with an update regarding the proposed Anchor In
Campground at 566 Bayside Road; summarize the concerns raised by neighboring residents and the discussion that
occurred at the Council's previous meeting; outline the legal framework governing a potential municipal moratorium;
and recommend a process for Council consideration going forward.

My recommendation at this time is that the Council continue to listen carefully to residents and receive information
regarding a potential moratorium, but take no legislative action intended to affect this particular application until the
Planning Board completes its pending review.

The Planning Board is an independent municipal reviewing authority charged with applying the ordinances currently
in effect to the application before it. The City Council establishes those ordinances as the City's legislative body, but it
should be cautious about inserting itself into the adjudicatory review of an individual application while that process
remains underway. The Planning Board should be permitted to make its decision on the record before it, without actual
or perceived direction from the Council regarding the outcome.

That does not mean the concerns raised by residents should be deferred or minimized. To the contrary, the questions
raised through this proposal warrant serious Council consideration about whether Ellsworth's campground regulations
and rural zoning continue to reflect the City's broader land-use objectives. There is, however, an important distinction
between deciding whether this pending project satisfies today's ordinances, which is presently the Planning Board's
responsibility, and deciding whether those ordinances remain appropriate for Ellsworth going forward, which is
properly a legislative question for the Council.

If the Planning Board denies the application, there would be no immediate reason for the Council to adopt a
moratorium for the purpose of stopping this project, although the broader ordinance questions could still be
considered through the City's normal land-use amendment process.




                                                            15


If the Planning Board grants final approval, I recommend that the Council immediately begin an expedited but
deliberate process to determine whether the statutory requirements for a moratorium are satisfied and whether
adopting one is ultimately in the City's best interest.

Background and Status of the Application
Superior Realty Inc. submitted an application in May 2026 for a Major Use Site Development Plan for the proposed
Anchor In Campground, a 28-site recreational vehicle campground at 566 Bayside Road. The approximately 52-acre
property is located in Ellsworth's Rural Zoning District. The proposal calls for full-service RV sites as well as reuse of
existing buildings on the property. There is an anticipated project cost of approximately $650,000, with construction
initially anticipated to begin in fall 2026 and completion targeted for summer 2027.

The project most recently appeared before the Planning Board on July 1. At that meeting, the Board reviewed the
preliminary application, heard from residents, questioned the applicant, and determined that the application was
complete for purposes of proceeding to the next phase of review. As City Planner Brittany Merrill explained to the
Council at the last meeting, Major Use Site Development Plans require two appearances before the Planning Board; the
second is the point at which the Board determines whether the application satisfies the applicable approval criteria
and should be approved or denied.

The Planning Board subsequently conducted a site visit on July 21. The applicant has now submitted for their final
review and is likely to be placed on the agenda for September 2nd agenda will go out on Monday. At that meeting the
Planning Board may request any additional information it believes is necessary before reaching its decision. The City
has also publicly noticed the July site visit as involving the proposed 28-site campground on the 52-acre parcel at 566
Bayside Road.

Previous Council Discussion and Public Comment
At the Council's previous discussion, a substantial number of residents from Alton Avenue, Marian Way, Bayside Road
and the surrounding area appeared and requested that the Council consider a temporary moratorium on new
campground development in the Rural District.

The central argument presented by the residents was not that Ellsworth should prohibit tourism or development
generally. Speakers repeatedly acknowledged the importance of growth and tourism to the community. Their
argument was instead that a high-density, transient commercial use immediately adjacent to an established residential
neighborhood is fundamentally different from the campground development contemplated when the City's existing
regulations were adopted.

Several themes emerged from their testimony.

Neighborhood character and compatibility. Residents described the Alton Avenue area as an established neighborhood
of approximately 50 homes occupied by year-round families. They argued that the daily arrival and departure of RVs,
visitor turnover, commercial activity, lighting and associated noise are fundamentally different from the low-density
residential character of the surrounding area.

Consistency with the Comprehensive Plan. Numerous speakers relied heavily on Ellsworth's recently adopted
Comprehensive Plan. They cited its emphasis on preserving rural character and natural resources, directing more
intensive development toward appropriate growth areas, reducing infrastructure and traffic impacts, and balancing
tourism with the quality of life of year-round residents. Their position is that the City's policy direction has changed
through adoption of the Comprehensive Plan while portions of the City's land-use ordinance have not yet been updated
to implement that direction.

Residents therefore argue that a temporary moratorium would provide time for the City to determine whether its
campground and rural-zone regulations should be revised before another project becomes established under the
existing standards. One speaker described the issue as one of precedent: if an RV campground is appropriate in this
                                                           16


rural neighborhood under the existing ordinance, similar projects could potentially occur in other rural residential
areas.

Adequacy of the existing campground ordinance. Residents specifically questioned whether Chapter 56's campground
provisions were written with modern full-service RV parks in mind. They argued that the City's campground ordinance
focuses significantly on conditions experienced by campground users but provides less specific protection for
neighboring properties. Residents contrasted those provisions with standards applicable to mobile-home parks,
including more explicit buffering, screening and lighting protections.

Recent reporting has similarly described the group's broader request as involving both the City's single Rural District
and the treatment of primitive campgrounds and full-service RV campgrounds under the same regulatory framework.

Traffic and road safety. Speakers described Bayside Road as a relatively narrow roadway that is increasingly used as an
alternative travel route toward Trenton and Mount Desert Island. Particular concerns included large RVs and trailers,
towing vehicles, visibility, lack of shoulders, cyclists and pedestrians, and additional seasonal traffic.

Fire and emergency access. Residents raised concerns about RV and propane fires, particularly because portions of the
adjacent neighborhood have limited access. Recent reporting has also documented the residents' concern that an
emergency near the campground entrance could affect access into or out of the neighborhood.

Water, environmental impacts and completeness of the record. Residents questioned groundwater capacity, potential
impacts on neighboring wells, clearing and wetlands, lighting, traffic information and other technical components of
the application. Some speakers expressed concern that information they believe is necessary for final approval had not
yet been supplied. These questions properly remain before the Planning Board, which may require additional
information as part of its final review.

Following the public hearing, Council members discussed the status of the application but took no action. The City
Planner reiterated that the July review represented the preliminary stage and that the final decision would occur when
the application returned to the Planning Board. Councilors also encouraged residents to continue providing
information which the residents have helpfully done.

The Council also discussed the residents' suggestion that the City's Comprehensive Plan steering process be
reconvened or continued as the City enters the next phase of implementing the Comprehensive Plan through ordinance
changes.

Maine Law Governing Municipal Moratoria
Municipal development moratoria are principally governed by 30-A M.R.S. §4356.

A moratorium on the processing or issuance of development permits or licenses must be necessary either:
   1. to prevent a shortage or overburdening of public facilities that would otherwise occur or is reasonably
       foreseeable because of proposed or anticipated development; or
   2. because existing comprehensive plans, land-use ordinances, regulations or other applicable laws are
       inadequate to prevent serious public harm from development in the affected geographic area.

A moratorium must have a definite duration of no more than 180 days. It may subsequently be extended for additional
periods of up to 180 days if the municipality determines both that the underlying problem still exists and that
reasonable progress is being made toward resolving it.

This is important because a moratorium cannot legally be based simply on opposition to a particular project or a
general desire for additional time. The Council would need to make supportable legislative findings satisfying the
statutory standard.

                                                          17


There is a second statute particularly relevant to the timing of this matter. Under 30-A M.R.S. §3007(6), a municipality
may not nullify or amend a municipal land-use permit through a subsequent ordinance enactment, amendment or
repeal after 45 days have passed following lawful final approval of the permit and the required public hearing. The
statute expressly includes site-plan approval among the municipal land-use permits covered by this protection.

Accordingly, if the Planning Board grants final approval on September 2, the City does not simply have an unrestricted
45-day statutory period in which it may automatically undo that approval. Rather, the statute creates a 45-day period
after final approval before the statutory protection against subsequent municipal nullification attaches.

Additionally, §3007(7) provides that a municipality may not enforce or apply a land-use ordinance retroactively unless
the ordinance expressly states that it has retroactive application.

Therefore, if Council ultimately wished a subsequently enacted campground moratorium to apply to an already-
approved Anchor In Campground permit, the language, findings, procedure and timing of that ordinance would need
to be carefully reviewed by the City Attorney. Assuming lawful final approval occurs September 2, 45 days thereafter
would fall on approximately October 17, 2026. Any Council strategy premised upon affecting that approval should
therefore be completed well before that date rather than treating October 17 as a target date.

Why I Recommend No Council Action Before the Planning Board Decision
I believe there are strong institutional reasons for allowing the current Planning Board process to conclude.

The Planning Board has a specific job: determine whether this application complies with the ordinances currently
enacted by the City Council. Council's job is different: establish the broader policy and ordinances under which
development is regulated.

Taking legislative action specifically designed to halt a pending application while the Planning Board is actively
evaluating it risks blurring those roles and creating the appearance that the Council is attempting to influence the
outcome of a matter assigned to another City board.

There is also no procedural necessity to do so at this point.

If the Planning Board concludes that the application does not meet existing standards and denies it, the immediate
issue presented by this particular application is resolved. Council could then consider any campground ordinance
changes through the ordinary Comprehensive Plan implementation process without the same time pressure. If the
application is not approved - the applicant has to wait 6 months before they can reapply with the same project

If the Planning Board approves the application, the Council can then confront the moratorium question directly, with
the benefit of the Planning Board's findings, the complete application record, the residents' proposed language and
legal arguments, the applicant's position, and advice from the City's attorney.

The Policy Question if the Project Is Approved
If the application is approved, Council will face a difficult question on which reasonable people can reach different
conclusions.

On one side is the legitimate interest of an established neighborhood in maintaining its residential and rural character.
Residents purchased homes in an area they experience as quiet, low-density and residential. The fact that an activity
may technically be permitted under existing zoning does not eliminate legitimate questions about traffic, safety,
buffering, noise, compatibility and whether the existing regulations adequately protect surrounding properties.

The Comprehensive Plan further complicates that question. Ellsworth recently undertook a substantial community
process to establish a vision for future growth, and the City's ordinances are still being evaluated and updated to

                                                           18


implement portions of that vision. It is reasonable to ask whether the Anchor In proposal has exposed a gap between
the City's current regulatory language and the community's newly articulated land-use goals.

On the other side is an equally significant principle: property owners and investors should generally be able to rely upon
the laws the City has adopted when deciding whether and how to invest in property.

The proposed developer purchased or controls property where the City's existing ordinance allows campground
development and has proceeded through the City's established application process. If a project complies with the rules
the City itself adopted, changing those rules late in the approval process raises important questions of fairness and
predictability.

That concern extends beyond this campground.

Ellsworth needs substantial expansion of its residential and commercial tax base. The City's recently reconstituted ten-
year Capital Improvement Plan identifies significant deferred investment in roads, facilities, equipment and other
depreciating municipal assets. An internal analysis estimates that new construction and business/residential
development are currently adding approximately $500,000 annually in new taxable value, excluding appreciation in
existing residential and commercial properties. At that rate, new tax-base growth alone is vastly insufficient even to
absorb annual increases in major municipal service costs and infrastructure needs without additional tax base growth.

Council therefore needs to consider not only whether a moratorium would improve campground regulation and zoning
appropriateness, but also the broader signal sent when municipal development rules are changed after a property
owner has invested substantial time and resources pursuing a project permitted by existing law.

Developers considering housing, commercial investment, lodging, manufacturing or other tax-base-expanding projects
observe how municipalities treat applicants already in the development pipeline. A pattern (or even a perception) that
otherwise permissible projects can cause the rules to change once an application becomes controversial could have a
chilling effect on investment far beyond RV campgrounds.

That does not mean that ordinances should never change or that a moratorium is necessarily inappropriate.
Municipalities must respond when experience demonstrates that existing regulations are inadequate. It does mean that
Council should be conscious of both sides of the precedent it establishes.

The question before Council, therefore, should not be framed simply as "Are we for or against this campground?"

The more appropriate questions are:

Has this application exposed a genuine inadequacy in Ellsworth's existing land-use regulations significant enough to
create the serious-public-harm finding required by Maine law? If so, is a temporary moratorium necessary to correct
that deficiency before additional campground development proceeds? And do the benefits of that intervention
outweigh the effects on property rights, regulatory predictability, and Ellsworth's broader need for responsible
economic growth?

Proposed Process Following a Planning Board Decision
The neighborhood group and its attorney are currently preparing proposed moratorium language and supporting
information for Council consideration. They have indicated an intention to provide that material to the Council. As of
the preparation of this memorandum, neither City staff nor the City Attorney has had sufficient opportunity to review
that proposed ordinance or its legal analysis. Though we will both attempt to do so prior to the council meeting and
voice additional thoughts and comments for consideration on Monday.

Currently, I recommend that Council accept those materials into the record but reserve judgment until the Planning
Board acts.
                                                           19


If the Planning Board denies the application on September 2, I recommend no emergency or expedited moratorium
proceedings. Staff should instead incorporate the issues identified through this process into the City's ongoing
Comprehensive Plan implementation and ordinance review.

If the Planning Board approves the application, I recommend the following expedited process:

September 14 – Special Council Workshop: Neighborhood and Moratorium Proponents
This meeting would be devoted primarily to the residents requesting the moratorium and their attorney. Unlike a
standard three-minute public-comment format, the group would have sufficient time to present its proposed
ordinance, legal argument, Comprehensive Plan analysis, concerns regarding the existing campground ordinance, and
evidence regarding traffic, public safety, environmental impacts, neighborhood compatibility and other alleged public
harms.

Councilors could then question the presenters in detail.

September 28 – Special Council Workshop: Applicant, Property Rights, City Staff and Legal Review
The applicant/property owner should be provided an equivalent opportunity to explain the project, its reliance upon
existing zoning, investments already made, proposed mitigation measures, and the consequences of applying a new
ordinance or moratorium to the project after Planning Board approval.

The City Attorney should also provide Council with an analysis of the proposed moratorium, including the findings
necessary under 30-A M.R.S. §4356, the implications of §§3007(6) and (7), procedural requirements for adoption,
potential retroactivity, and litigation risk.

Planning, Code, Public Works, Fire, Police and other appropriate staff could address technical questions within their
respective areas without advocating for either outcome.
The discussion should also include the broader policy implications for economic development, housing and confidence
in Ellsworth's permitting environment.

Following those two meetings, the Council should hold whatever formally noticed public hearing and legislative
meeting City Council determines is required, sufficiently in advance of approximately October 17 to permit lawful
adoption and implementation if Council determines that a moratorium is warranted.

Conclusion
The residents who have organized around this proposal have raised substantial and thoughtful questions that deserve
more than a three-minute exchange at a Council meeting. They have identified issues regarding neighborhood
compatibility, traffic and emergency access, rural character, the distinction between modern RV parks and traditional
campgrounds, and the relationship between Ellsworth's newly adopted Comprehensive Plan and ordinances written
before that plan was completed. Those questions deserve a full hearing.

The applicant and property owner are entitled to equal consideration. They have proceeded under ordinances enacted
by the City that currently permit campground development in the Rural District. The Council must therefore consider
the implications of changing those rules during or immediately following an active permitting process and what that
could communicate to other property owners, housing developers and businesses considering investment in Ellsworth.

The Planning Board should first be allowed to perform the responsibility assigned to it.

After that decision, if the application is approved, Council will still have an opportunity (subject to the statutory
requirements and timelines described above) to determine whether this proposal has revealed a regulatory problem
sufficiently serious to justify the extraordinary step of a temporary development moratorium.

                                                           20


My recommendation is therefore not to prejudge either the campground application or the proposed moratorium
today, but to protect the integrity of the Planning Board process, continue listening to all parties, and, if final approval
occurs September 2, immediately commence the structured and expedited Council process outlined above.

That approach gives the affected neighborhood a meaningful opportunity to make its case; affords the property owner
and developer the same opportunity; provides Council with independent legal and professional advice; and allows the
Council ultimately to make this significant decision based on a complete record and with consideration of both the
neighborhood interests immediately at stake and the long-term interests of the City of Ellsworth.


Attachments: n/a
CC: n/a




                                                            21


                                                                                                               g.
                                         PROPOSED ORDINANCE
                                                                                                              tin
         City of Ellsworth Moratorium Ordinance – Recreational Vehicle Park Developments
                                                                                                  nc
                                                                                                    il M
                                 Legal Authority: 30-A MR.S §§ 3001, 4356                               ee
      The CITY OF ELLSWORTH, MAINE, through its legislative body, adopts the following       Co
      Moratorium Ordinance:                                                                     u
                                                                                       Ci
      WHEREAS, a development that fits into the category of a RV Park development has been
                                                                                         ty
      proposed, and is served by a municipal road that is insufficiently built for the traffic to be caused
      by the development;                                                          the
      WHEREAS, RV Park developments may produce mass quantities of septic wastewater that have
                                                                                to
      the possibility of impacting wetlands, vernal pools and neighboring properties as well as
      potential spillovers into surrounding waters; and
                                                                           rio r
 Do   WHEREAS, RV Park developments have the potential to adversely impact traffic congestion and

Ha cumroad safety; and

  sn eWHEREAS, the noise and light pollution generated by RVs and RV Park activities can disrupt

    ot nt s
      wildlife habitats, causing stress and disturbances to local fauna; and

      be ub
      WHEREAS, RV Park developments have the potential to generate a significant amount of trash,
        en m
      including plastic waste, and inadequate waste management can result in harm to the

            re itte
      environment; and
              vie d b
      WHEREAS, without appropriate regulation, such RV Park developments could pose a threat to
                 we y
      the quality of life, health and safety of City residents; and
                    d b an
      WHEREAS, the City of Ellsworth did not anticipate RV Park developments being proposed and
                       y t ext
      thus has not included RV Park developments in its Table of Use Regulations in the Unified
                          he ern
      Development Ordinance; and

                            Ci al
      WHEREAS, the City's current Unified Development Ordinance does not contain standards
                               ty gr
      specifically governing RV Park developments, including standards relating to traffic impacts,
                                 or ou
      infrastructure capacity, wastewater management, environmental protection, density, setbacks, and
                                   Ci p f
      compatibility with surrounding land use; and
                                     ty or
      WHEREAS, the Unified Development Ordinance does not currently differentiate between RV
                                       At co
      Park developments and Campgrounds; and
                                         tor ns
                                            ne id
      WHEREAS, the Unified Development Ordinance’s definition of “Campground” was not
                                              y b era
      intended to include sites exclusively dedicated to Recreational Vehicles; and

                                                 ut tio
                                                   wi n.
                                                     ll b
                                                        1 ep
                                                       22


                                                                                                           g.
      WHEREAS, unlike Campgrounds, RV Park developments require access to utilities including
                                                                                                          tin
      water, electricity, and sewage systems, which can disrupt local ecosystems and natural  nc
      landscapes and burden municipal resources;                                                il M
      WHEREAS, RV Park developments have the potential to cause land degradation, soil erosion      ee
      and damage to local vegetation due to the continuous wear and tear caused by Recreational
                                                                                         Co
      Vehicles; and                                                                         u
                                                                                    Ci
      WHEREAS, there is a strong likelihood that the City will continue to be subjected to this type of
                                                                                      ty
      development due to the amount of undeveloped land, relatively low land prices, proximity to
      Mount Desert Island, and high demand for sites for such development; and  the
      WHEREAS, Campgrounds are currently permitted throughout the Rural (R) Zoning District,
                                                                             to
      which makes up the majority of the City’s land area (exclusive of water bodies and wetlands
      identified in the National Wetlands Inventory); and
                                                                        rio r
 Do   WHEREAS, the Unified Development Ordinance currently provides for only one rural district,

Ha cumthe Rural (R) Zoning District, despite encompassing the majority of the City’s land area,
      including areas with vastly different characteristics and typical land uses; and
  sn e
    ot nt s
      WHEREAS, the City Comprehensive Plan adopted in 2024 recommended an amendment to the
      Unified Development Ordinance to create more than one rural zone including Rural, Rural
      be ub
      Conservation, and Rural Village, each with its own land use regulations designed for the area’s
        en m
      unique characteristics; and
            re itte
              vie d b
      WHEREAS, the City Comprehensive Plan adopted in 2024 prioritizes the reduction of traffic
      congestion and mitigation of traffic volumes; and
                 we y
                    d b an
      WHEREAS, the City Comprehensive Plan adopted in 2024 recommends coordination with other

                       y t ext
      municipalities in the region on issues implicated by this type of development, including
      transportation, water quality protection, and sustainability and resiliency; and
                          he ern
      WHEREAS, the Unified Development Ordinance has not yet been amended to align with the
                            Ci al
      goals articulated in the City Comprehensive Plan adopted in 2024; and
                               ty gr
                                 or ou
      WHEREAS, the City Council believes that the current Unified Development Ordinance contains
                                   Ci p f
      insufficient provisions to ensure that RV Park development in the Rural (R) Zoning District
                                     ty or
      protects the rural character and environmental attributes of those areas and is supported by
                                       At co
      adequate infrastructure and transportation systems; and
                                         tor ns
      WHEREAS, the City needs at least 180 days to evaluate the concerns raised in regard to
                                            ne id
                                              y b era
      anticipated or proposed RV Park developments, to determine the adequacy of existing land use
      ordinances and regulations; and
                                                 ut tio
                                                   wi n.
      WHEREAS, during the effective period of this Moratorium, City staff and the Planning Board
      will work to develop appropriate zoning and regulations for the development of RV Park
                                                     ll b
                                                      2   ep
                                                     23


                                                                                                             g.
      developments to provide adequate protection for the property, health, welfare, and safety of the
                                                                                                            tin
      City of Ellsworth’s residents; and                                                        nc
      WHEREAS, after public hearing, there is strong support for this Moratorium Ordinance; and
                                                                                                  il M
                                                                                                      ee
      WHEREAS, in the judgment of the City, these facts establish that a Moratorium Ordinance in
                                                                                           Co
      accordance with 30-A M.R.S. 4356 (1) is immediately necessary for the preservation of the
      public health, safety, and welfare.                                                     u
                                                                                      Ci
      NOW, THEREFORE, the City of Ellsworth hereby ordains this City of Ellsworth Moratorium
                                                                                        ty
      Ordinance – Recreational Vehicle Park Developments be enacted:
                                                                                  the
         I. Authority & Purpose: This Moratorium Ordinance is enacted pursuant to 30-A M.R.S.
                                                                               to
      §4356 and the City of Ellsworth’s home rule authority pursuant to the Maine Constitution and
      30-A M.R.S. § 3001 for the purposes identified above.               rio r
 Do       II. Definitions: The following definitions shall be used in the interpretation and construction

Ha cumof this Moratorium Ordinance:

  sn e           A. “Recreational Vehicle Park” and “RV Park” shall mean a business, public or
    ot nt s         private establishment operated as a recreational site for Recreational Vehicles.
      be ub
        en m     B. “Recreational Vehicles” shall mean vehicles or vehicular attachments designed for

            re itte temporary sleeping or living quarters for one or more persons, including, without
              vie d b
                    limitation, pickup campers, travel trailers, tent trailers, motor homes, or converted
                    vans or trucks.
                 we y
                    d b an
          III. Moratorium on RV Park Developments: The City hereby declares and imposes a
                       y t ext
      moratorium prohibiting the development of any RV Park developments within the boundaries of
                          he ern
      the City of Ellsworth. No person or organization shall develop or operate a RV Park development
      within the City of Ellsworth.
                            Ci al
                               ty gr
                                 or ou
          IV. Moratorium on Processing Applications: No officer, employee, official, board or body

                                   Ci p f
      of the City of Ellsworth, including without limitation the City of Ellsworth Planning Board,
      Board of Appeals, or Code Enforcement Officer, shall accept, issue, act upon, or approve
                                     ty or
      applications, plans, permits, licenses, certificates and/or fees for any projects, developments,
                                       At co
      construction or uses for or directly related to the development, construction, siting, or operation
      of a RV Park development.
                                         tor ns
                                            ne id
                                              y b era
         V. Severability: Any provisions of the City’s Unified Development Ordinance and
                                                 ut tio
      regulations which are inconsistent or conflicting with the provisions of this Moratorium
                                                   wi n.
      Ordinance, including, without limitation, the requirements for special use permit review by the
                                                     ll b
                                                       3  ep
                                                      24


                                                                                                             g.
      Planning Board, and appeals by the Board of Appeals, are hereby suspended in their effect to the
                                                                                                            tin
                                                                                               nc
      extent that they are applicable for the duration of the Moratorium Ordinance hereby ordained,
                                                                                                 il M
      but not otherwise. To the extent any provision of this Moratorium Ordinance is deemed invalid
      by a court of competent jurisdiction, the balance of the Moratorium Ordinance shall remain     ee
      valid.
                                                                                          Co
         VI. Effective Date, Term and Retroactivity:                                         u
                                                                                     City
                 A. This moratorium shall take effect immediately upon passage by the Ellsworth
                    City Council and extend for the shorter of the following periods: (a) 180 days
                                                                                 the
                    from the date of passage; or (b) immediately upon its repeal by a duly called City
                    Council meeting.                                          to
                                                                         rio r
                 B. This moratorium may be extended for successive 180 day periods by vote of the
 Do                 City Council as permitted by 30-A M.R.S. §4356, after notice and hearing, if the
                    City Council finds that the problem giving rise to the need for the moratorium still
Ha cum              exists and that reasonable progress is being made to alleviate it. The moratorium
  sn e              may also be extended at any duly called City Council meeting within the
    ot nt s         moratorium period and at which an article adopting such an extension and the
      be ub         subsidiary findings required by law passes.
        en m
            re itte
                 C. Upon its effective date, notwithstanding the provisions of 1 M.R.S.A. § 302, this
                    Moratorium Ordinance shall be retroactive and applicable, to the maximum extent
              vie d b
                    permitted by law and subject to the severability clause above, to all filed, pending,
                 we y
                    or future applications and petitions for RV Park developments, including any
                    d b an
                    which have not received all necessary final permits, licenses, certifications,

                       y t ext
                    approvals, and/or fees from the City of Ellsworth; and all proposed RV Park

                          he ern
                    developments that were not fully operational and/or did not have all the required
                    State permits; and, shall be applicable to any City of Ellsworth permit that has
                            Ci al
                    received its lawful final approval issued less than 45 days prior to the effective
                               ty gr
                    date of the Moratorium Ordinance, in accordance with 30-A M.R.S.A. § 3007(6).
                                 or ou
         VI.                       Ci p f
                 Enforcement: The Municipal Officers are hereby authorized to institute any and
                                     ty or
                 all actions, either legal or equitable, that they deem necessary or appropriate to
                                       At co
                 enforce the provisions of this Moratorium Ordinance. Any violation of this
                                         tor ns
                 Moratorium Ordinance is subject to an enforcement action under 30-A M.R.S. §4452.
                                            ne id
                 Any violation of this Moratorium Ordinance constitutes a nuisance. Each day of
                                              y b era
                 violation shall constitute a separate offense. All civil penalties shall inure to the
                                                 ut tio
                 benefit of the City of Ellsworth.
                                                   wi n.
                                                     ll b
                                                       4  ep
                                                      25


                                                                                                             g.
                                                                                                            tin
      URGENCY CLAUSE: In view of the urgency cited herein, this Moratorium Ordinance shall      nc
                                                                                                  il M
      take effect immediately upon passage by the City, shall apply, to the maximum extent permitted
                                                                                                      ee
      by law but subject to the severability clause above, to all proceedings, applications, permits, and
      petitions as set forth in clause VI C.
                                                                                           Co
                                                                                              u
      By signing below the Ellsworth City Council certifies that this is a true copy of the approved
      moratorium ordinance to be considered by the inhabitants of Ellsworth at a
                                                                                      City
      Special City Council Meeting to be held on _________, 2026:
                                                                                   the
      CITY COUNCIL                                                             to
                                                                           rio r
 Do
Ha cum Carol Patterson-Martineau                           Patrick Shea

  sn e
    ot nt s
       Marinna Smith                                       Nancy Smith

      be ub
        en m
       Steven E. O’Halloran                                Patrick Lyons
            re itte
              vie d b
       Tabatha White
                 we y
                    d b an
                       y t ext
                          he ern
                            Ci al
                               ty gr
                                 or ou
                                   Ci p f
                                     ty or
                                       At co
                                         tor ns
                                            ne id
                                              y b era
                                                 ut tio
                                                   wi n.
                                                     ll b
                                                       5  ep
                                                      26


CITY OF ELLSWORTH, MAINE


TO: Ellsworth City Council
FROM: Roddy Ehrlenbach, Director – Parks, Recreation & Facilities
DATE: August 11, 2026
SUBJECT: Development of RFP – City Hall Seal Pediment Assessment, Removal, and Restoration and Establishment of
a Taskforce



Recommendation
I recommend that the City Manager proceed with the development and issuance of a Request for Proposals (RFP) for
the professional assessment, controlled removal, stabilization, conservation, and eventual restoration of the City Hall
Seal, to be presented at the October City Council Meeting for approval.

The proposed RFP would utilize a two-phase approach, with Phase 1 focused on assessment, documentation,
controlled removal, stabilization, and temporary storage, and Phase 2 focused on conservation, restoration, and
reinstallation based on the findings of the Phase 1 assessment.

This approach allows the City to address the immediate preservation risk while maintaining appropriate fiscal and
project controls. Most importantly, it allows the City to make the eventual restoration decision based upon professional
assessment of the Seal's actual condition rather than assumptions about what may be required.

Purpose of the RFP
The purpose of the RFP is to engage a qualified historic preservation contractor and architectural conservator with the
specialized experience necessary to safely remove, assess, and preserve the Seal.

This is not conventional construction or carpentry work. The Seal's condition, size, elevation, and historic significance
require specialized expertise in historic wood conservation, architectural rigging, controlled disassembly,
documentation, transportation, and environmental stabilization.

The RFP will establish minimum qualifications for firms and project teams, including demonstrated experience with
historic wood conservation and elevated architectural removals. Bidders will also be required to submit detailed
methodologies for rigging, debris containment, extraction, labeling, crating, transportation, and controlled drying and
storage.

Why Proceed Now?
The Seal is understood to be in a severely deteriorated condition, and continued exposure to the elements increases the
potential for further loss of historic material. The City cannot fully understand the extent of deterioration or develop an
appropriate restoration plan until the Seal is removed and assessed. In an attached memo, from a recent workshop,



                                                            27


Councilor Martineau encourages something to be done to save the decaying seal before the damage is completely
irreparable.

Proceeding with Phase 1 in the near term does not commit the City to a particular restoration treatment or to the full
cost of Phase 2. Rather, it allows the City to:

   •   Protect the Seal from continued exposure and deterioration;
   •   Preserve and document existing historic material;
   •   Obtain a professional assessment of its actual condition;
   •   Develop a realistic scope and cost for restoration; and
   •   Make an informed decision regarding the appropriate level of restoration.

Delaying the assessment does not eliminate the eventual need to address the Seal; it simply leaves the City without the
information necessary to determine the appropriate course of action while deterioration may continue.

Why a Phased Approach?
A phased approach is recommended because the full condition of the Seal cannot be accurately determined while it
remains installed and exposed to the elements.

Phase 1 – Assessment, Removal & Stabilization

Phase 1 would include:
   • Pre-removal documentation and photography;
   • Rigging and removal planning;
   • Controlled disassembly and removal;
   • Component and fragment identification and mapping;
   • Protective crating and transportation;
   • Climate-controlled storage and gradual drying;
   • Professional condition assessment; and
   • A comprehensive Condition & Assessment Report with recommendations for Phase 2.

The Seal would be stored in a controlled environment to allow gradual moisture equilibration before the condition
assessment is finalized. The project materials anticipate approximately three to six months of climate-monitored
storage                             and                             controlled                            drying.

Phase 2 – Conservation, Restoration & Reinstallation

Once the Seal has been removed, dried, and assessed, the City will have the information necessary to develop a
responsible restoration scope and budget. Potential work could include wood consolidation, Dutchman repairs,
structural repairs, treatment or replacement of deteriorated components, appropriate paint systems, anchoring repairs,
reassembly, and reinstallation.

Phase 2 would be subject to City and Ellsworth Historic Preservation Commission review and approval. The City would
retain a decision point between the two phases rather than committing now to an undefined restoration scope and cost.

Anticipated Timeline

The project should be viewed as a multi-year preservation effort. A realistic schedule from RFP issuance through
completion is approximately 15–24 months, depending on procurement, preservation review, the condition discovered
following removal, and the extent of restoration ultimately required.


                                                          28


Anticipated Timing             Activity
                               Issue RFP, receive and evaluate proposals, select contractor, and approve at October
Fall 2026
                               Council Meeting
Late 2026 / Early 2027         Finalize removal plans and preservation approvals
                               Remove, document, crate, and transport Seal; provide temporary building-envelope
Spring 2027
                               protection
Spring–Summer 2027             Controlled drying and stabilization
Summer/Fall 2027               Condition assessment and Phase 2 treatment recommendations
Fall 2027                      City/EHPC review and development of final restoration scope and cost
Late 2027/Early 2028           Phase 2 authorization and preparation
Winter–Spring/Summer
                               Conservation, restoration, reassembly, and reinstallation
2028

The schedule is intentionally conservative given the need for controlled drying and the possibility that the condition
assessment may reveal additional deterioration requiring more extensive restoration.

Financial Considerations
A definitive restoration budget cannot be established until the Seal is removed and professionally assessed.

For planning purposes, the preliminary Phase 1 estimate identified in the project materials is approximately $13,000–
$28,000, including removal, specialized labor, protective crating, transportation, temporary storage, and contingency.

The RFP will require actual Phase 1 pricing from qualified contractors. Phase 2 costs will be developed after completion
of the assessment and will return to the City for consideration before restoration work proceeds.

Grant Funding Opportunity
The City has also recently been made aware of a potential funding opportunity that could significantly offset the cost of
the project. The Maine Downtown Center has opened a new round of REvitalizeME Downtown Grants, offering $50,000–
$200,000 for historic preservation projects in designated Main Street communities such as Ellsworth. The program
supports projects that preserve historic resources while enhancing their civic and community value and requires a 20%
local match.

The application deadline is October 14. Based on the program's stated objectives, the restoration of the City Seal
appears to be a strong potential fit and is an opportunity worth exploring.

The timing of this grant opportunity further supports moving forward with the RFP and Phase 1 work in the near term.
While the City cannot establish a final restoration budget until the Seal has been removed and assessed, beginning that
process now will provide the information necessary to better define the overall project, develop a credible funding
request, and position the City to pursue outside funding for Phase 2.

Heart of Ellsworth has offered to assist the City with development of the grant narrative, provided they are notified as
soon as possible so they can allocate time to support the application.

Given the potential scale of the funding available relative to the anticipated project cost, staff believes this opportunity
warrants further consideration as part of the City's overall strategy for financing the Seal's restoration.


Attachments: Memo from Councilor Martineau
CC: n/a


                                                            29


      Workshop Discussion: Rehabilitation / Restoration of City Hall Seal Pediment
                                       August 3, 2026
The iconic hand-carved pediment on the front gable-end of Ellsworth City Hall is now 91
years old. It is the largest representation of the State Seal in Maine and the only municipal
architectural embellishment of its kind in the United States. This is the third time in its 91
years that the Seal has been left to the decay of wind and weather, thaw and freeze: not for
months or for years, but for decades at a time. Even as pieces broke off and fell to the
sidewalk, it went without so much as routine inspections, much less preventative
maintenance and repair. When remediation became unavoidable and the Seal finally
removed – first in 1985 and then again in 1998 – the repairs, however well-intentioned and
carefully carried out - very significantly compromised the historical integrity of the
pediment.
We now face, what may well be, the last opportunity to preserve, for future generations,
this historic symbol of community that defines our most important municipal building. But
this will not happen if we repeat past mistakes, cut the same familiar corners, and engage
in the political posturing that divides our community. Proposing what will undoubtedly be
a lengthy, complex, and expensive project in these financially challenging times is
daunting. But for a short time, each generation becomes the stewards of its own history.
How we respond to the challenge becomes our collective legacy.
Respectfully


Carol Patterson-Martineau PhD
Chair, Ellsworth Historic Preservation Commission
Ellsworth City Councilor




                                             30


The City Council should authorize the City Manager to create a Pediment Seal Task Force.
This should be chaired by the City Manager (or the Assistant City Manager) and also
include the Head of Public Works, representatives from the Ellsworth Historic
Preservation Commission and the Ellsworth Historical Society, as well as community
volunteers interested in the project. [do we need Finance and/or a grant writer?]




                                           Draft Proposal:
    A Phased COA Rehabilitation / Restoration of the City Hall Seal Pediment
All evidence points to the Seal (once again) being in a state of severe decay. However, it must be
evaluated by an expert conservator before any plan can be made to address the issues. Attempting to
issue one single, comprehensive COA for the entire project right now creates an administrative deadlock:
the Commission cannot approve a restoration plan until conservators inspect the dried wood, but the
City cannot legally remove the wood to inspect it without EHPC approval.

Breaking the approval process into distinct phases keeps the project legally compliant and moving
forward.

How a Phased COA Works

Phase 1 COA: Removal, Containment & Temporary Envelope Protection

The City (the “Task Force”) applies for - and EHPC approves - a COA application strictly for the removal
and stabilization scope. This approval covers:

   •   Temporary Removal: Authorized extraction of the seal/pediment using specified platform lifts
       and padding techniques.

   •   Building Envelope Weatherization: If appropriate, approval of the temporary, non-destructive
       weather barrier or flashing installed over the vacant pediment bay on City Hall to prevent water
       intrusion while the seal is away.

   •   Conditions of Approval: The EHPC attaches specific binding conditions to the Phase 1 COA,
       such as: (Draft examples at the end of this document)

          1. The removed pediment must be stored in a climate-monitored facility.

          2. A qualified conservator must complete a Condition & Assessment Report within a specified
             timeframe (e.g., 90 days of drying).

          3. No permanent alteration or re-installation may occur until a Phase 2 COA application for
             Conservation & Re-installation is submitted and approved.

Phase 2 COA: Conservation, Repair & Re-installation
                                                    31


Once the pediment is safely down, dried out, and fully assessed, the Task Force returns to the EHPC with
the actual restoration specifications (Dutchman repairs, wood consolidants, paint systems, re-anchoring
hardware) for a second COA review and final approval.

Important: this project should not be considered complete or successful without establishment by
the City Council of mandates for the Seal’s future maintenance and binding provisions for funding
of same.



Benefits of the Phased Approach

   •   Protects the Building: Gets the wood out of the weather immediately without violating local
       preservation law.

   •   Clear Legal Boundaries: Gives removal contractors legal clearance to touch the historic structure
       without granting a "blank check" for how the final restoration will look.

   •   Transparency: provides for establishment of clear boundaries and definition of acceptable
       collaboration between The City and Ellsworth Historic Preservation Commission.



________________________
                        (Examples of potential specifications for Phase 1)
                     Technical & Contractor Qualification Requirements
                Phase 1: Removal, Stabilized Handling, and De-installation
Because the 18-foot, multi-piece historic relief seal sits 30 feet in the air and is structurally
compromised, this scope separates general mechanical rigging from specialized architectural
conservation.

                         Technical Specifications: Removal & Handling
1. Specialized Rigging & Lift Operations

   •   Platform Aerial Equipment Required: The contractor shall not utilize single-person bucket
       trucks or boom lifts with restricted work envelopes. The project requires a self-propelled articulate
       or telescopic aerial work platform (scissor/boom with minimum 6 ft × 8 ft platform capacity)
       to allow two conservators/riggers to work side-by-side with the pediment pieces simultaneously.

   •   Point-Load & Structural Protections: Lift equipment operating on City Hall Plaza or adjacent
       granite steps must utilize load-distribution pads to protect underlying municipal stonework and
       utility vaults.


                                                     32


   •   Fall-Protection & Containment Netting: Prior to releasing any hardware, fasteners, or structural
       connections, the contractor must install a high-tenacity perimeter debris-containment netting
       system beneath the full 18-foot span of the pediment. The system must extend a minimum of 10
       feet out from the building face to catch any wood fragments, carved elements, or hardware that
       may dislodge during extraction.

2. Disassembly & Hardware Removal Protocols

   •   Controlled Extraction: No aggressive leverage tools, saws, or destructive pry bars may be used
       directly against historic wood. Fasteners (bolts, lags, pins) must be individually identified, cleaned
       of paint/corrosion, and systematically removed.

   •   Shoring & Modular Support: Because the carved wood relief consists of multiple connected
       sections, each section must be custom-padded (using non-reactive materials like polyethylene
       foam and strapped to rigid, temporary backing frames before being unbolted from the masonry
       backer.

   •   Fragment Capture & Mapping: Any loose or broken wood components (including previously
       damaged pieces) must be documented in place, tagged with location markers, individually
       wrapped in acid-free tissue/bubble wrap, and mapped to a grid diagram of the pediment face.

3. Transport, Crating & Environmental Stabilization

   •   On-Site Crating: De-installed elements must be lowered directly into cushioned, custom-built
       wooden transport crates lined with closed-cell foam. Elements must not sit unprotected on
       asphalt or bare ground.

   •   Controlled Drying Environment: The contractor/conservator must transfer the crated pediment
       to a secure, climate-monitored interior facility to allow gradual moisture equilibration. Rapid
       drying (high heat or direct sunlight) is strictly prohibited to prevent further checking, warping, or
       wood grain separation.

                               Minimum Contractor Qualifications
To ensure the safety of this high-altitude, fragile historic asset, bidding contractors must meet the
following mandatory thresholds:

Requirement 1: Demonstrated Historic Preservation Experience

   •   The Lead Specialty Contractor or Conservator must have a minimum of 7 years of documented
       experience in the dismantling, handling, and structural conservation of historic exterior timber,
       wood carvings, or architectural millwork.

   •   Must show compliance with The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for the Treatment of Historic
       Properties (specifically Guidelines for Preserving and Rehabilitating Historic Wood).

Requirement 2: Fine-Art / Architectural Rigging Expertise



                                                     33


   •   The primary rigging crew must demonstrate proven experience performing delicate architectural
       extraction at elevation (above 20 feet). Standard commercial demolition riggers or tree-service
       operators do not qualify unless paired with a Senior Architectural Conservator overseeing the
       extraction plan.

   •   Portfolio Submittal: Bidder must submit a minimum of three (3) past projects involving fragile,
       elevated structural removals of historic masonry, timber, or sculpture, including client contact
       references.

Requirement 3: Professional Staffing & On-Site Personnel

   •   On-Site Project Manager: Must possess a minimum of 5 years managing complex historical
       restoration projects.

   •   Conservator Presence: A qualified Historic Wood Conservator or Senior Architectural Historian
       must be physically present on the lift platform during all fastener removals and initial lifting off the
       building face.

Requirement 4: Technical Submittals Required with Bid

Bidders must submit the following documents for city approval prior to contract award:

   1. Rigging & Lift Logistics Plan: Detail lift model, platform dimensions, ground placement, weight
      limits, and traffic/pedestrian control on City Hall Plaza.

   2. Debris Capture Plan: Drawings/specs of the containment netting and safety rigging beneath the
      work zone.

   3. Extraction & Labeling Methodology: Step-by-step narrative detailing how sections will be
      supported, unbolted, labeled, and crated.

   4. Temporary Stabilization Plan: Facility specs for where the pediment will be stored and how
      relative humidity will be managed during drying.

                                    How much will Phase 1 Cost?
I don’t know. But here is a collaboration between me and AI. Gemini was provided with the history of past
Seal removals, the dimensions, age, and construction of the Seal, a description of its present condition,
photos of the front of City Hall and The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and
Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings. It was then asked to find and utilize other large
architectural preservation projects that necessitated working at heights, such as those employed by
conservators at Christ Church Episcopal in Gardner, ME. I cannot vouch for its accuracy but it does
seem to address the challenges inherent in our proposed project.




                                                      34


                                                                                   Estimated
Budget Category    Description & Scope
                                                                                   Range


                   80 ft + articulating boom/platform lift rental, heavy load-
1. Site Setup &                                                                    $3,000 –
                   distribution mats for plaza, street/sidewalk safety permits,
Aerial Equipment                                                                   $6,000
                   and high-tenacity perimeter debris netting setup.


                   1–2 days of on-site work by a Senior Architectural
2. Specialized
                   Conservator, Master Rigger, and historic carpentry team.        $5,000 –
Labor &
                   Includes slow hardware extraction, temporary backing            $11,000
Disassembly
                   supports, and piece mapping.


3. Protective      Custom-built wooden transport crates, high-density
                                                                                   $2,000 –
Crating &          Ethafoam padding, polyethylene wrapping, and acid-free
                                                                                   $4,500
Materials          archival packing for loose fragments.


                   Secure transport to a facility and the first 3 to 6 months of
4. Transport &                                                                     $1,500 –
                   climate-monitored, slow-drying storage to stabilize
Climate Storage                                                                    $3,500
                   moisture levels without cracking.


5. Municipal       Local police traffic detail (if occupying City Hall
                                                                                   $1,500 –
Support &          parking/street space), municipal permits, and a 15%
                                                                                   $3,000
Contingency        unexpected structural contingency.


ESTIMATED PHASE                                                                    $13,000 –
                   Removal, Crating & Temporary Storage Only
1 TOTAL                                                                            $28,000




                                             35


CITY OF ELLSWORTH, MAINE



TO: City Council
FROM: Planning Department
DATE: August 17, 2026
SUBJECT: Request to adopt a Data Center Moratorium Ordinance




 SUGGESTED MOTION:              Move to adopt a Data Center Moratorium Ordinance as presented, with an
                                immediate effective date.

 BACKGROUND                     As requested by Council at its June workshop meeting on June 1, 2026 and in
                                consultation with the City’s legal council, the Planning Department has prepared
                                the attached moratorium ordinance regarding data centers for Council’s
                                consideration, a public hearing, and possible action.

                                Chapter 56, the Unified Development Ordinance, and related ordinances do not
                                currently contain specific standards addressing data centers and as such, the City
                                requires sufficient time to study the potential impacts of data centers and
                                determine whether amendments to Chapter 56 or other ordinances are necessary.
                                As written, this ordinance is set to last 180 days, which will allow the Planning Board
                                and City staff to study, review, and develop recommendations to responsibly
                                address and manage the potential future development of data centers. The
                                Planning Board shall endeavor to submit recommendations for permanent action
                                by the expiration date of this ordinance. There is an option to extend this
                                moratorium for another 180 days after the expiration.




Attachments: Draft Moratorium




                                                        36


The City of Ellsworth adopts a Moratorium Ordinance entitled Data Center Moratorium
Ordinance “Moratorium Ordinance” as follows:

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Ellsworth, Maine (“the City”), after due consideration,
find pursuant to 30-A M.R.S. §§ 3001 and 4356 as follows:

   1. There has been a recent increase in the development of large-scale data centers (“Data
       Centers”) throughout the United States and within the State of Maine;
   2. The development of Data Centers within the City, absent appropriate regulatory standards
       and review criteria, could cause a shortage or overburdening of public facilities such as
       water, roads, fire protection, and public safety, and could pose a threat to the quality of
       life and health and safety of City residents, in ways that have not yet been adequately
       evaluated by the city;
   3. Data Centers are often characterized by significant demands for electrical power, water
       resources, cooling systems, and communications infrastructure, and the City has not yet
       evaluated the capacity of local and regional systems to accommodate such uses.
   4. Data Centers may require substantial and continuous electrical service, raising concerns
       regarding impacts on local utility infrastructure, grid reliability, energy availability, and
       associated costs that warrant further study by the City;
   5. Data Centers may involve the operation of generators, cooling equipment, ventilation
       systems, and other mechanical infrastructure that may generate noise, heat, lighting, and
       emissions that could affect neighboring properties and environmental resources;
   6. The construction and operation of Data Centers may generate increased traffic volumes,
       roadway impacts, utility demands, and public service needs requiring further evaluation
       by the City;
   7. Data Centers often require large building footprints and substantial supporting
       infrastructure, raising concerns regarding land use compatibility, visual impacts,
       community character, and consistency with the goals and policies of the City’s
       Comprehensive Plan;
   8. There is a strong likelihood of continued development pressure for Data Centers due to
       regional and national demand for digital infrastructure and cloud computing facilities;
   9. The City may be attractive for such development due to the availability of undeveloped
       land, proximity to electrical transmission infrastructure, transportation corridors, and
       other site-selection factors commonly considered by Data Center developers;
   10. The City's Unified Development Ordinance and related regulations do not currently
       contain specific standards addressing the siting, design, operation, environmental impacts,
       utility demands, water usage, backup power systems, noise generation, emergency
       response considerations, or decommissioning of Data Centers, potentially resulting in land
       use decisions being made without an adequate regulatory framework;



                                               37


   11. The City requires sufficient time to study the potential impacts of Data Centers on
       municipal infrastructure, public services, natural resources, land use patterns, and
       community character, in order to determine whether amendments to the Unified
       Development ordinance or other municipal regulations are necessary;
   12. City staff expects that the study, review, and development of recommendations to
       responsibly address and manage the potential future development of Data Centers can be
       accomplished in one hundred eighty (180) days from the date the City first enacts a
       moratorium;
   13. In the judgment of the City Council, the foregoing facts demonstrate that a temporary
       moratorium is necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare while the City
       evaluates and develops appropriate regulatory standards governing Data Centers;
   14. The City Council recognizes that Data Centers may provide economic development
       opportunities; however, the City has determined that it is in the public interest to first
       establish clear standards and review criteria to ensure that any future development occurs
       in a manner consistent with the City's Comprehensive Plan and the protection of public
       health, safety, welfare, and natural resources.

NOW, THEREFORE, based upon the foregoing findings, be it hereby ordained by the City Council
of the City of Ellsworth as follows:

   1. Authority: This Data Center Moratorium Ordinance (“Moratorium Ordinance”) is enacted
      pursuant to the authority granted to the City of Ellsworth under 30-A M.R.S. § 3001 and
      30-A M.R.S. § 4356 and, in furtherance thereof, the City Council hereby declares a
      moratorium on the siting, permitting, construction, and operation of Data Centers within
      the City of Ellsworth.
   2. Effective Date and Purpose: This Moratorium Ordinance shall take effect immediately
      upon its adoption by the City Council and shall remain in effect for one hundred and eighty
      (180) days from its effective date, unless extended by order of the City Council or repealed
      or modified by ordinance, allowing municipal officials reasonable time to evaluate the
      concerns raised in regards to anticipated Data Centers, to determine the adequacy of
      existing land use ordinances and regulations, and, if necessary, to develop additional
      ordinances and regulations to provide adequate protection for the property, health,
      welfare, and safety of the City of Ellsworth’s residents.
   3. Prohibition: During the effective period of this Moratorium Ordinance, no official, officer,
      board, or agency of the City of Ellsworth shall accept, process, approve, deny, or in any
      other way act upon any application or request for any type of permit or approval relating
      to the siting, permitting, construction, or operation of a new Data Center within the City
      of Ellsworth.




                                               38


4. Definitions: A “Data Center” means a building, structure, campus, or facility, or group of
   facilities under common ownership or control, the primary purpose of which is the
   housing, storage, processing, management, transmission, or distribution of digital data
   through computer servers, networking equipment, data storage systems, and associated
   mechanical and electrical infrastructure, including cooling systems, backup power
   generation, substations, and utility support equipment.
   The term shall not include server rooms, telecommunications equipment, or information
   technology systems that are accessory and incidental to the principal use of a school,
   hospital, government facility, business office, manufacturing facility, retail establishment,
   or other permitted use.
5. Action by the Planning Board and City Council: During the effective period of this
   Moratorium Ordinance, the Planning Board and Council-appointed staff shall
   expeditiously act to review the implications of such developments on the health, safety,
   welfare, traffic, emergency services, public facilities and utilities, land use, aesthetics, and
   natural environment of the City of Ellsworth and its residents. Toward the end of the
   Moratorium, the City will hold at least one public hearing and receive input from
   interested parties. The Planning Board shall endeavor to submit recommendations for
   permanent action within one hundred seventy-nine (179) days of the effective date of this
   Moratorium Ordinance.
6. Enforcement and Civil Penalties: If any Data Center is opened or operated within the City
   in violation of this Moratorium Ordinance, such operation shall constitute a violation of
   this Moratorium Ordinance, and each day of such violation shall constitute a separate
   violation of this Moratorium Ordinance. The City’s officers, officials, and employees are
   hereby authorized to institute any and all rights available to it pursuant to 30-A M.R.S. §
   4452, including fines and penalties, injunctive relief, and its reasonable attorneys’ fees and
   costs in prosecuting any such violation.
7. Severability: Any provisions of the City of Ellsworth’s existing ordinances that are
   inconsistent or conflicting with the provisions of this Moratorium Ordinance are hereby
   repealed to the extent applicable for the duration of this Moratorium Ordinance. Should
   any section or provision of this Ordinance be declared by any court to be invalid, such
   decision shall not invalidate any other section or provision.




                                              39
