                Moratorium Ordinance: Battery Energy Storage Systems

                                     Town of Durham, Maine




WHEREAS, the inhabitants of the Town of Durham, Maine, after due consideration, find
pursuant to 30-A M.R.S. § 4356 as follows:

1. The State of Maine has established goals for the development of large-scale energy storage
   systems to advance alternative energy viability.

2. Several communities in Maine have reviewed and approved large-scale Battery Energy
   Storage Systems (BESS) projects and at least one project is under consideration for
   Durham.

3. Durham has two major CMP powerline corridors that present significant opportunities for
   development of BESS facilities.

4. BESS facilities generally consist of rows of rechargeable batteries housed in self-contained,
   interconnected storage units. BESS facilities typically operate by drawing surplus energy
   from the local power grid during periods of low usage and storing it for later distribution
   back into the grid during peak demand.

5. Following the third fire at a battery energy storage facility in as many months in New York,
   that state’s governor announced the creation of a State Inter-Agency Working Group tasked
   with ensuring the safety of Battery Energy Storage Systems across New York.

6. According to New York’s study, battery fires are most commonly caused by thermal
   runaway, when a battery' s temperature increases, leading to cell short-circuiting or
   disintegration. Thermal runaway can be caused by factors including mechanical damage,
   poor air conditioning and electrical issues such as overcharging.

7. Fire officials have expressed concern with the presence of highly flammable substances in



                                                                                                 1
   BESS systems and the potential for gassing, toxicity, and groundwater contamination in fire
   events associated with these facilities.

       a. BESS involve relatively new technology which the Town’s building, fire and
           planning officials need time to study in order to recommend and administer
           appropriate land use controls.

8. A primary concern associated with lithium-ion BESS is the potential for explosion or
   deflagration due to accumulation of flammable off-gases within a confined space, such as a
   battery enclosure. Current fire safety codes require that explosion controls be provided for
   lithium-ion BESS in rooms, areas, or walk-in energy storage units, and is therefore not
   required for non-enterable BESS units, also referred to as “cabinets.” The Town of
   Durham recently enacted regulations governing the establishment of solar energy systems
   that did not address the specific issues related to Battery Energy Storage Systems that could
   be associated with such solar energy system facilities.

9. The Town of Durham has received inquiries about large-scale Battery Energy Storage
   Systems.

10. The Town of Durham intends to do additional research and enact regulations to address the
   specific challenges of large-scale Battery Energy Storage Systems.

11. The current Land Use Ordinance of the Town of Durham is inadequate to provide for the
   effective review and regulation of Battery Energy Storage Systems as a land use in the
   Town.

12. The Town of Durham has a volunteer fire department with limited resources to respond to
   high-intensity and large-scale emergencies related to Battery Energy Storage Systems and
   the Town has no plans for the development of infrastructure to support such intense land
   uses.

13. The Town of Durham has no public water systems and requires each land use to provide its
   own water supply for fire protection purposes, which may be inadequate to deal with
   emergencies related to large-scale Battery Energy Storage Systems.

14. The Town citizens have, on numerous occasions, as stated in the Comprehensive Plan
   expressed deep concern over the preservation of open space, farmland, and forest cover as



                                                                                                  2
     well as the retention of the rural character.

 15. It is intended that the Town’s review of this issue will result in additional land use controls
     and regulations governing the siting and setback of BESS and providing special standards
     for BESS related to emergency response, fire and explosion control systems and plans, as
     well as signage, emergency response, first responder training, security and other necessary
     restrictions to adequately protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of Durham.


WHEREAS, in the judgment of the voters of the Town of Durham, the foregoing findings and
conclusions constitute an emergency requiring immediate legislative action.

 NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the voters of the Town of Durham, Maine, in Town
 Meeting assembled, as follows:
During the effective period of this Ordinance, no official, officer or agency of the Town of
Durham shall accept or process any application for approval of any Battery Energy Storage
System with a storage capacity in excess of 20 kWh. No person shall submit an application
for approval of development or construction of the above-described structures to any official,
officer or agency of the Town of Durham. For the purposes of this Moratorium Ordinance,
the term Battery Energy Storage System shall mean one or more devices, assembled
together, capable of storing energy in order to supply electrical energy, of any aggregate
energy capacity, at a future time. This Moratorium Ordinance shall not apply to a Battery
Energy Storage System that is designed and intended only to store energy produced by a
permitted Solar Energy System.

This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its adoption and shall remain in
full force and effect for a period of 180 days thereafter or until a new and revised set of land
use regulations is adopted by the Town of Durham, whichever shall first occur.
Notwithstanding 1 M.R.S. § 302, this moratorium shall apply retroactively to any
application filed on or after September 4, 2024. The Durham Select Board may extend the
duration of the moratorium for a period of an additional 180 days.




                                                                                                       3
